017655976
OMH
6231179
675466
12/9/2000 12:00:00 AM
Discharge Summary
Signed
DIS
Report Status :
Signed
DISCHARGE SUMMARY
NAME :
KOTE , LYFRANKLAPALM
UNIT NUMBER :
512-13-39
ADMISSION DATE :
01/18/2001
DISCHARGE DATE :
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
This is a 64 year old patient initially admitted to Dr. Riode Area status post an aorto bifemoral bypass in 01/98 with an end to end proximal and to the common femoral bilaterally .
The patient has had recurrent claudication for the last five months and has developed lesions on the first toe which is apparently similar to aparonychia .
He had an angiogram which shows a severe stenosis in the right distal area with a thrombosing right limb of an aorto femoral graft .
He also has an irregular lesion at the profunda femoris origin and with the superficial femoral occluded bilaterally .
He was therefore admitted to the hospital for an ileofemoral bypass .
The patient unfortunately continues to smoke and has greater than a 50 pack year history of smoking and by notes of Dr. Area &apos;s office , this has been discussed at length with him and the implications of the smoking .
He has a history of a deep vein thrombosis and a question of a pulmonary embolism with what is thought to be a non fully documented hypercoagulable state .
He had a left superficial femoral artery interposition graft around 1990 which is non functioning at the present time , most of which was done at the Alconspore Woocawo Medical Center .
ALLERGIES :
The patient has no known drug allergies .
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION :
His medications on admission include Coumadin and Levofloxacin .
His Coumadin has been held for two days .
His claudication is equal bilaterally .
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION :
On physical examination was remarkable for no carotid bruits , a ventral hernia without any masses which was reasonably reducible .
His rectal exam was refused at the time of surgery since apparently it was negative at the Tocon Hospital the previous week .
He has a first and fourth toe which had some purulent discharge around the toes with ischemic modeled toes and on the left side there were no lesions in the feet .
His pulse exam was a femoral pulse bilaterally , but none distally .
LABORATORY DATA :
His BUN and creatinine were within normal limits at 16 and 1.3 and his hematocrit was 44 with a white blood count of 10,000 and 139,000 platelet count .
He has ankle brachial indices of .36 bilaterally but with his right toes appearing ischemic with lesions he would most likely not heal these lesions .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
Dr. Area had asked me to see the patient and after discussing with the patient it was agreed that I would proceed with revascularization of his right leg since he had a angiogram which demonstrated a failing limb of his aortofemoral graft and a tight profundus stenosis .
After discussing with the patient , getting his prothrombin time closer to range , he was brought to the operating room where a ileo profunda bypass was performed with an 8 mm .
EP to FE under general endotracheal anesthesia .
There was copious thrombus in the distal right limb of the aortofemoral graft which also had a thromboendarterectomy performed and excellent inflow was achieved .
Superficial femoral artery was divided since it was also chronically occluded .
There was a significant amount of thrombus at the anastomosis as well which had developed a small aneurysmaltype of dilatation , although there was no dehiscence of the anastomosis .
The profunda had been opened beyond the origin stenosis and the bypass was then performed providing and excellent flow to the calf and excellent pulsevolume recordings were obtained with strong upstrokes .
It was therefore elected not to proceed with a distal bypass graft to the popliteal arteries which would have been required should this not have worked .
The patient postoperatively did quite well .
He had continued good post volume recordings and there was no question that with this improved circulation and Silvadene dressings to his toes that they actually started to heal in his postoperative course with improved perfusion and capillary refill .
His groin incision was healing nicely and he was on Heparin , being converted to Coumadin .
Because of the issue relating to his hypercoagulable state , and the need for getting him in range , he was keptin the hospital and not discharged .
The orders of his wounds and wound care were clarified and he was transferred to Frontera 34 to ensure that this would be performed properly .
No cellulitis was present , and the patient had indicated his desire to be discharged .
Despite loading him on Coumadin , his prothrombin time and INR increased slowly and he left the hospital without discharge order or discharge planning on the 18th of December .
I had called the patient and discussed with him his care , which he had been then transferring to his local medical doctor for anticoagulation purposes .
I explained to the patient that because of his early discharge I would not be able to be responsible for his care but would be happy to see him in theoffice for removal of his sutures and an appointment for that was undertaken .
DEGREG R. UPH , M.D.
Electronically Signed
A LISSWHITI AREA , M.D.
01/30/2001 04:33 _
TR :
yg
DD :
01/18/2001
TD :
01/22/2001 9:24
Pcc :
RIODE REYAZA AREA , M.D. A LISSWHITI AREA , M.D.
