048526074
PUOMC
3122379
197796
538354
7/19/1999 12:00:00 AM
Discharge Summary
Unsigned
DIS
Report Status :
Unsigned
DISCHARGE SUMMARY
NAME :
BEATHEMARES , KELAN
UNIT NUMBER :
274-60-45
ADMISSION DATE :
07/19/1999
DISCHARGE DATE :
07/28/1999
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS :
Cerebral vascular accident .
ASSOCIATED DIAGNOSIS :
Congestive heart failure , pre-renal azotemia , rheumatoid arthritis , anemia , hypertension , status post myocardial infarction , status post coronary artery bypass grafting .
ADVERSE DRUG REACTIONS :
None .
CLINICAL INFECTIONS :
None .
PRINCIPAL PROCEDURE :
None .
DOCTOR &apos;S DISCHARGE ORDERS :
Colace 100 mg PO t.i.d. , Tropine 1 percent OD GTT q.day , Neurontin 100 mg PO b.i.d. , heparin 5,000 units sub Q b.i.d. , Prednisone 5 mg PO q.day , Isordil 30 mg PO t.i.d. , Prilosec 20 mg PO q.day , Plavix 75 mg PO q.day , Zestril 10 mg PO q.day , Lasix 20 mg PO q.day .
WORD DISABILITY AND PROBABLY DURATION :
The patient is disabled .
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
Ms. Kotereef is a 93-year-old woman who was transferred from Daleglo Medical Center with renal insufficiency .
The patient was in her usual state of health until 7/10/98 when she was admitted to the Daleglo Medical Center with a chief complaint of falling and mental status changes .
She was initially treated for heart failure and pneumonia and , on the night of admission , she experienced a fever to 104 , acute respiratory distress and required intubation for two days .
The patient was noted to have a CPK of 150 with 11.8 percent MB but no diagnostic electrocardiogram changes .
She was treated for congestive heart failure and was diuresed and extubated .
She was transferred to the floor where initially she did very well but subsequently developed an elevated BUN and creatinine and failure to eat .
The patient &apos;s granddaughter requested that she be transferred to the Ph University Of Medical Center where she had been cared for in the past for her myocardial infarction as well as cerebrovascular disease .
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY :
Her past medical history is notable for congestive heart failure with a last ejection fraction noted to be 28 percent in April of 1997 .
She also has a history of urinary tract infection .
She has a history of diverticulosis with lower GI bleeds .
In 01/95 she was admitted with a cerebral vascular accident notable for right facial droop and left-sided weakness .
There was marked improvement in these symptoms thereafter , and the patient was discharged on Coumadin which was subsequently discontinued .
The patient also has a history of myocardial infarction in 1977 and 1987 and underwent a coronary artery bypass grafting X4 in 1987 .
She also has a history of polymyalgia rheumatica with a bilateral temporal artery being biopsied and being negative for temporal arteritis .
She also has a history of right proximal femur fracture and internal fixation in 1995 .
On arrival to the Ph University Of Medical Center the patient stated that she had not had a bowel movement for many days and that she had no appetite .
However , she denied any chest pain , dyspnea or syncope .
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION :
On physical examination her pulse was 55 .
Her systolic blood pressure was 110 .
She appeared to be very dry with very dry mucosa .
Her lungs had few rhonchi , no rales .
Her cardiac exam was irregular but her heart sounds were distant .
Her abdomen showed active bowel sounds , was nontender and she had no pedal edema .
LABORATORY DATA :
Laboratory data was notable for hematocrit of 33.5 , white count of 14.7 , platelet count of 270 .
BUN 112 , creatinine 2.3 , sodium 142 , potassium 4.2 , CO2 23.4 , and chloride 104 .
A chest x-ray revealed clear lungs on a portable chest x-ray without evidence of pneumonia or pulmonary edema .
A KUB showed a large loop of dilated bowel but no free air and a tortuous calcified aorta .
An electrocardiogram revealed normal sinus rhythm with evidence of an old inferior myocardial infarction and right bundle branch block .
HOSPITAL COURSE AND TREATMENT :
The patient was admitted to Goman 25 where she was hydrated for the presumed diagnosis of pre-renal azotemia .
A urinalysis was notable for pyuria with 50 to 100 white cells , and the patient was begun on Levofloxacin for presumed polymicrobial urinary tract infection .
A head CT scan was performed which showed multiple old ischemic infarcts in the right frontal and cerebellar lobes .
There was diffuse atrophy and no evidence of recent bleed .
The patient was evaluated by the rheumatology service who noted that the patient &apos;s diagnosis was most consistent with rheumatoid arthritis and possibly PMR .
The patient had been followed by Dr. Friednantflirt of the Ph University Of Medical Center .
At that time she was noted to have undergone bilateral temporal artery biopsies , both of which were negative for temporal arteritis .
The recommendation from the rheumatology service was to attempt to decrease her Prednisone to 5 mg PO q.day with an eye on a change in the severity of her shoulder arthritis symptoms .
On the third hospital day the patient developed a sudden change in her mental status while taking pills .
She was noted to be arousable and responsive and minimally conversation .
However , she was unable to move her right arm or leg .
Her eyes were deviated to the left and she had a right facial droop .
The patient was taken to the emergent CAT scan which revealed no acute bleeding and was felt to be a cerebral vascular occlusion .
The patient was evaluated by the Stroke Service , which recommended a lumbar puncture which was performed and did not reveal evidence of meningitis .
A cardiac ultrasound was performed which revealed an ejection fraction of 50 percent with wall motion abnormalities in the inferior septal and inferior walls involving the apex .
There was trace mitral regurgitation .
Multiple aortic valve leaflets were thickened without stenosis .
There was no evidence of an intraventricular thrombus .
The patient was initially treated by increasing her aspirin from 81 mg to 325 mg .
She was also continued to be hydrated .
Her blood pressure medications were held to allow increased cerebral perfusion .
After careful discussion with the neurology service , it was felt that the patient was at too great a risk to be started and maintained on anticoagulant therapy and therefore she was treated conservatively .
The patient was subsequently evaluated by the speech pathology service , the physical therapy service and the occupational therapy service for evaluation for her recovery from her stroke .
Her BUN and creatinine continued to decrease with hydration and Zestril was re-initiated and , as her blood pressure allowed , her Isordil was re-initiated and then her Zestril was increased to 10 mg PO q.day .
Digoxin was discontinued because of her improved left ventricular ejection fraction .
The patient did have a steady decrease in her hematocrit to a minimum of 26.2 and received one unit of packed red blood cells with restoration of her hematocrit over 30 .
Her ferritin was 83 and there was no evidence of guaiac positive stools .
It was elected to defer further evaluation of her anemia at this time .
However , if she became more evidently guaiac positive it would be appropriate to evaluate the source of bleeding in her colon and potentially in her esophagus and stomach .
Nevertheless , the patient was switched from aspirin to Plavix 75 mg PO q.day in view of her history of lower GI bleeding .
Major consideration toward the end of the patient &apos;s hospitalization was whether or not she would be able to take adequate PO intake to maintain her volume status .
Initially it was felt that the patient would require gastroscopy .
However , with the assistance of the patient &apos;s granddaughter , the patient was able to increase her po intake with a lot of assistance .
The patient &apos;s granddaughter felt that it was likely that her PO intake would improve when she returned home to the nursing home .
I discussed this with the granddaughter and told her that if her PO intake was inadequate , that gastrostomy tube would be reasonable in the future and that we would be available to assist in this as it became necessary .
The patient was evaluated by the GI service who thought that a PEG would be quite feasible and that they would be delighted to do this if it was necessary and the patient and family agreed .
Nevertheless , we have decided to postpone this issue for now and to see how she does when she returns to the nursing home .
The patient will be transferred tomorrow to Naplesvillechaelty .
I will get in touch with Dr. Areas and please do not hesitate to contact me if I can provide any additional information .
My direct pager is 935-131-3314 .
TAMYRCLEO KOTE , M.D.
TR :
gqx
DD :
07/27/1999
TD :
07/27/1999 7:52 P
cc :
TAMYRCLEO NADON KOTE , M.D. RYNVI A AREAS , M.D.
