071051340
CTMC
24840812
370376
11/10/1991 12:00:00 AM
Discharge Summary
Signed
DIS
Admission Date :
11/10/1991
Report Status :
Signed
Discharge Date :
11/12/1991
DIAGNOSIS :
STATUS POST OMAYA RESERVOIR .
SMALL CELL CANCER OF THE BRAIN .
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient was a 66 year old right-handed female with a history of small cell carcinoma , who comes in for placement of an Omaya reservoir .
The patient was in her usual state of health until 1988 , when she developed flu-like symptoms .
Chest x-ray at that time was negative .
Bronchoscopy was performed showing small cell carcinoma .
The patient was doing well status post radiation therapy and chemotherapy , when she began to develop severe headaches .
A computerized tomography scan at that time revealed multiple metastatic lesions .
The patient was admitted for placement of an Omaya reservoir for delivery of central nervous system chemotherapy .
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY revealed hypertension .
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY included total abdominal hysterectomy and bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy .
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION included Tenormin , Decadron , hydrochlorothiazide .
ALLERGIES are no known drug allergies .
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION :
The patient was well nourished , well developed , with some dry skin on the left side .
Head , eyes , ears , nose and throat examination revealed alopecia , normocephalic , atraumatic .
Lungs were clear .
Heart examination showed regular rate and rhythm , S1 , S2 , no murmurs .
Abdomen was soft , nontender , nondistended , bowel sounds were present .
Rectal examination was guaiac negative with normal tone .
Neurologic examination revealed her speech and mental status were within normal limits , oriented times 3 , attentive with good calculations , intact memory .
Cranial nerves showed visual fields were full , pupils were equally round and reacted to light , extraocular movements intact without nystagmus and face was symmetric .
Motor and sensory branches of cranial nerve V were intact .
Hearing was intact bilaterally , palate and uvula and tongue were midposition , and she had V / V strength in the neck .
Motor examination showed her right upper extremity strength was IV / V in all muscle groups .
In her left upper extremity , strength was V / V in all muscle groups .
In the right lower extremity strength was V / V in all muscle groups , and in the left lower extremity strength was IV / IV in all muscle groups .
Finger-nose was intact bilaterally .
Reflexes were symmetric .
Sensory examination was intact to all modalities .
Gait was unsteady and she required assistance .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
The patient was admitted for placement of an Omaya reservoir .
Medications given were as stated above .
DISPOSITION :
CONDITION ON DISCHARGE was stable .
The patient was to FOLLOW-UP with Dr. Sta O. Tongue for staple removal .
The patient was to FOLLOW-UP with her oncologist .
UN645/3206 STA O. END , M.D. ED16
D :
11/11/91
Batch :
7978
Report :
G2571K82
T :
11/15/91
Dicatated By :
NU L. JESCRALN , M.D.
