086513773
FIH
5078706
58262/gv5v
008122
Martin Luther King Day 12:00:00 AM
Discharge Summary
Unsigned
DIS
Report Status :
Unsigned
ADMISSION DATE :
Martin Luther King Day
DISCHARGE DATE :
01/22/93
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
Mr. Louplardkote is a 70 year old male who was admitted for coronary artery bypass grafting .
He has been followed by his local physician for heart block which has progressed and culminated in a DDD pacer being inserted 02/92 .
In March , 1993 he noted chest discomfort with exertion .
An exercise tolerance test and stress Thallium showed septal and anterior wall ischemia .
In October , 1993 the patient developed shortness of breath and orthopnea .
An echocardiogram at the time revealed left ventricular dilatation and septal dyskinesis .
The patient subsequently developed congestive heart failure which was treated with diuretics .
On 12/29 the patient underwent cardiac catheterization which revealed a right coronary artery that had serial stenosis , and left anterior descending artery that had a long complex proximal lesion and a circumflex which had its first obtuse marginal which was stenotic .
The left ventriculogram showed global hypokinesis and preserved left ventricular function with mitral valve prolapse without regurgitation .
The patient is thus admitted for coronary artery bypass grafting .
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY :
1 ) hypercholesterolemia ,
2 ) arthritis ,
3 ) history of guaiac-positive stools with a lower gastrointestinal endoscopy negative three years ago ,
4 ) status post appendectomy .
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION :
Toprol XL 50 mg. po q.day , Ismo 20 mg. po bid , Lasix 40 mg. d , Lopid 600 mg. po bid , Questran 1 scoop po bid , nitroglycerin spray prn .
ALLERGIES :
no known drug allergies .
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION :
His head , eyes , ears , nose , and throat exam was benign .
Cardiac exam revealed a normal S1 and S2 with a I-II / VI late systolic murmur radiating to the apex .
Lungs were clear .
Abdomen was benign .
Rectal :
guaiac negative , no lesions , smooth prostate .
Vascular exam ; 2+ pulses throughout bilaterally without bruits .
LABORATORY DATA :
On admission , chest x-ray revealed two nodular opacities that were projected over the left lung , one over the anterior aspect of the left fourth rib and the other over the interspace between the anterior sixth and seventh ribs .
These were also seen on previous film .
These were felt to be consistent with a granulomata .
There was also a bipolar pacemaker present .
Creatinine was 0.9 , BUN 13 , hematocrit was 40 .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
The patient was admitted to the hospital on 01/15/93 and on the following day was taken to the operating room where he underwent a saphenous coronary artery bypass graft to the diagonal , circumflex marginal artery , and acute marginal coronary artery and left internal mammary artery graft to the left anterior descending coronary artery .
This operation was performed by Dr. Chitllik Kote .
Intraoperative findings were as follows :
The pericardium was opened to reveal a heart that appeared essentially normal .
The diagonal coronary artery was isolated , opened and probed with a 1.5 millimeter probe .
The circumflex marginal artery was small and only took a 1 millimeter probe tightly .
The first main was anastomosed side to side to the diagonal and end to end to the circumflex marginal artery .
The left anterior descending artery was then isolated , opened , probed with a 1.5 millimeter probe and anastomosed to the left internal mammary artery .
The acute marginal branch of the right coronary artery was isolated , opened and probed with a 1.5 millimeter probe tightly and a second main was anastomosed to this .
The patient tolerated the procedure well and was transported to the Surgical Intensive Care Unit in stable condition on nitroglycerin at 50 mcg. per minute Levophed at 4 mcg. per minute and Lidocaine at 1 mg. r minute .
The patient was extubated on postoperative day # 1 and transported to the routine postoperative care floor on postoperative day # 2 in good condition .
The only issue of note during the patient &apos;s SICU course was a small right apical pneumothorax which disappeared on repeat chest x-ray .
The other issue was that the Pacer Lab was consulted for an atrial sensing problem .
The pace setter 2022 Synchrony II was interrogated .
It was found to have inadequate atrial sensing , even post re-programming to the maximum sensitivity at 0.5 millivolts .
No changes with unipolar ring or tip .
The V threshhold was changed from 0.6 millivolts/ 2.0 millivolts to 0.8 millivolts/ 4.0 millivolts .
The V sensor was changed from 4 millivolts to 2 millivolts .
It was felt that the atrial pacing would improve as the edema resolved .
Meanwhile , the patient was AV paced using the epicardial wires .
While on the routine postoperative care floor the patient continued to progress well .
Of note , he developed a small right apical pneumothorax which was followed on serial films and found to be stable and was not causing the patient any respiratory distress .
Also , the Pacer Service re-programmed the patient &apos;s cardiac pacer to a VVIR mode with a rate of 60 beats per minute , an AV delay of 175 , a maximum track of 120 .
The ventricular pulse configuration was bipolar with a V-pulse width of .8 , a V-pulse amplitude of 4.0 , a V-sense configuration of bipolar , a V-sensitivity of 2.0 and a V-refractory of 250 .
The atrial pulse configuration was bipolar with an A-pulse width of .4 , an A-pulse amplitude of 2.5 , an A-sensed configuration that was bipolar , an A-sensitivity that was .5 , an A-refractory that was 325 .
Blanking was set at 38 , AV-safety option was on enable , PVC options were on , PMT options were off , a rate respiratory AV-delay was on enable , a magnet was temporary off .
The threshhold was 2.0 .
The measured average sensor was 2.0 .
The slope was 8 .
The maximum sensory rate was 110 .
The reaction time was fast , the recovery time was medium .
The patient continued to progress well and was ultimately discharged on 01/22/93 in good condition .
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS :
Coronary artery disease .
PRINCIPAL PROCEDURE :
Saphenous coronary artery bypass graft to the diagonal , circumflex marginal artery and acute marginal coronary artery and left internal mammary artery graft to the left anterior descending artery on 01/17/93 by Dr. Chitllik Kote .
CONDITION ON DISCHARGE :
Good .
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE :
Lasix 40 mg. po q.day , Ecotrin 325 mg. po q.day , Iron 325 mg. po tid , Folate 1 mg. po q.day , Lopid 600 mg. po bid , Questran 1 scoop bid .
DISPOSITION :
The patient was discharged to home .
He will followup with Dr. Chitllik Kote , Cardiothoracic Surgery ; with Dr. Naka Jesc of Cardiology ; and with Dr. Tomedankell Flowayles of Sephsandpot Center in Chandbay .
LEEN PAUGBREUN , M.D.
DICTATING FOR :
CHITLLIK KOTE , M.D.
TR :
xd / bmot
DD :
01/24/93
TD :
01/26/93
CC :
Chitllik Kote , M.D. Naka Jesc , M.D. Tomedankell Flowayles , M.D. T. Medical Center , Carsterl , Minnesota edited 02/24/93
