091433468 EH
25611102
350195
11/23/1992 12:00:00 AM
Discharge Summary
Signed
DIS
Admission Date :
11/23/1992
Report Status :
Signed
Discharge Date :
11/27/1992
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS :
GASTROENTERITIS .
SECONDARY DIAGNOSIS :
UTERINE FIBROIDS .
RULE OUT MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION .
ALCOHOL AND COCAINE USE .
HYPERTENSION .
IDENTIFICATION DATA :
This is a 47-year-old black female with a history of multiple sexually transmitted diseases in the past , polysubstance abuse who presented with a one day history of abdominal pain , nausea , vomiting and chest pain .
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient &apos;s cardiac risk factors include hypertension , hypercholesterolemia and tobacco use .
The patient has no prior history of coronary artery disease .
The patient has had multiple prior sexually transmitted diseases and gynecological procedures .
On the day of admission , the patient awoke with nausea , emesis , abdominal pain and chest pain with shortness of breath .
The patient described the chest pain as an ache in the mid sternal area without radiation .
The patient had multiple episodes of emesis and dry heaves on the day of admission .
There was no blood or coffee ground emesis noted .
The patient also has a long history of alcohol use .
She has used intravenous drugs in the past but denied intravenous drug use for five to ten years .
The patient uses cocaine regularly .
She drinks approximately one pint of hard liquor every other day .
The patient &apos;s last drink was on the day prior to admission .
The patient was brought to the emergency room by the EMT &apos;s who found the patient in her bathroom vomiting .
In the field , the patient &apos;s blood pressure was 150/80 , pulse 84 and there were no orthostatic changes .
In the emergency room , the patient was found to be afebrile .
Her exam in the emergency room was notable for marked cervical motion tenderness and left lower quadrant tenderness .
She was evaluated by general surgery who felt that there was no surgical abdomen .
The patient &apos;s EKG showed new T wave inversions anteriorly .
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY :
1. Hypertension times 20 years only treated intermittently .
2. Polysubstance abuse .
3. Pelvic inflammatory diseases on multiple occasions requiring hospitalizations in 1976 and 1977 .
4. Syphilis , status post treatment with IM penicillin , 2.4 million units q week times three in 1970 .
5. Status post tubal ligation .
6. Dilatation and curettage .
MEDICATIONS :
None .
ALLERGIES :
ASPIRIN .
VIBRAMYCIN .
FAMILY HISTORY :
Positive for hypertension and positive for diabetes .
The patient &apos;s father died of an unknown cause .
The patient &apos;s mother has a weak heart .
SOCIAL HISTORY :
The patient lives alone , she is a widow .
She has six children .
She has had one sexual partner over the past six months with intermittent use of condoms .
She smokes two to three packs per day times 30 years .
The patient drinks one pint every other day .
The patient has a history of IV drug abuse and currently uses cocaine .
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS :
Negative .
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION :
On admission revealed an uncomfortable woman with occasional retching .
Temperature 98.9. Blood pressure 160/100 .
Heart rate 80 .
O2 saturation 98% on room air .
HEENT exam was unremarkable .
Neck was supple without bruits .
Back revealed right CVA tenderness .
Lungs revealed bibasilar crackles , otherwise clear .
There were no E to A changes .
Cardiovascular exam revealed a regular rate and rhythm without murmurs .
Abdomen revealed positive bowel sounds , soft , no guarding , diffuse abdominal tenderness with marked left lower quadrant tenderness without rebound .
Pelvic exam showed no vaginal discharge with marked cervical motion tenderness .
Extremities revealed no clubbing , cyanosis or edema .
Skin revealed no rash or alopecia .
Rectal exam revealed guaiac negative stool .
Neurological exam was nonfocal .
LABORATORY DATA :
On admission included general chemistries which were within normal limits .
Serum toxicology screen revealed an alcohol level of 71 .
Urine tox screen was positive for cocaine .
Platelet count 308,000 .
Hematorit 41.5 .
White blood cell count 6.5 .
PT 11.9 .
PTT 27.1 .
EKG revealed sinus rhythm at a rate of 66 with an axis of 33 degrees , intervals of 0.17/0.09/0.48 .
There was a Q wave in lead III .
There was T wave inversion in V2-5 which was new .
Chest x-ray showed no infiltrates .
There was a right upper lobe apical bulli .
KUB revealed a normal gas pattern , there was no obstruction of free air .
Phleboliths were identified .
Pelvic ultrasound showed no hydronephrosis , 3 x 3 x 4 cm mass contiguous with posterior uterus , most consistent with a fibroid .
The ovaries were not seen on the abdominal ultrasound .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
Cardiac :
The patient had no prior history of cardiac disease .
Although the chest pain that she had could have represented ischemia , there was a low clinical suspicion for this .
It was most likely felt that the patient &apos;s chest pain was reflective of her abdominal gastroenteritis .
However , she was admitted to a cardiac floor and put on telemetry and a myocardial infarction was ruled out by serial CK &apos;s .
The patient &apos;s CK&apos;s were 233 , 198 and 132 .
Electrophoresis of the A set revealed no MB&apos;s .
The patient &apos;s EKG did not evolve .
The patient has a long history of hypertension which has not been treated .
During this admission , she was started on nifedipine for control of her blood pressure .
GI :
The patient presented with diffuse abdominal pain which was more pronounced in the left lower quadrant , nausea and vomiting .
The differential diagnosis for this was felt to be a viral gastroenteritis , diverticulitis , degenerating fibroid , ovarian torsion and pelvic inflammatory disease .
Although the patient had cervical motion tenderness on admission physical exam , the gynecology service felt that the pelvic inflammatory disease was an unlikely diagnosis in this setting because the patient has had a tubal ligation in the past .
The patient had an abdominal and pelvic CT scan at which time the ovaries were identified and were felt to be unremarkable .
Additionally , the uterus itself was felt to be normal .
No diverticula were seen on the CT scan and no abscess was seen .
After receiving 24 hours of IV fluids and hydration , the patient &apos;s abdominal symptoms spontaneously resolved .
She was taking po &apos;s very well and had no further episodes of nausea , vomiting or emesis .
At the time of discharge , she still had mild left lower quadrant pain on deep palpation only .
Infectious disease :
At the time of admisison , the patient was afebrile and did not have a leukocytosis .
However , blood cultures were drawn on admission .
The patient had a total of four sets of blood cultures drawn .
One set of blood cultures grew out Group B strep and staph epi .
As the patient was afebrile and had a normal white blood cell count , it was suspected that these cultures results were most likely a contaminant .
Two additional sets of blood cultures were drawn and the patient was empirically started on vancomycin and Flagyl .
After 48 hours , all other blood cultures remained negative and the patient continued to be afebrile .
The antibiotics were discontinued , she was observed and remained afebrile .
Gynecologic :
The patient had perimenopausal symptoms at the time of admission with hot flashes and irregular menstrual cycles .
A FSH level was drawn and is pending at the time of dictation .
The gynecology service would like to have follow-up with the patient for routine gynecologic exam , pap smear and estrogen replacement counseling in approximately three months .
Social :
While in house , the patient was seen by social services .
Apparently , the patient lives alone and is without employment .
She has no medical insurance .
It was discussed that the patient should see the social service in outpatient Kingsec Li Hospital .
Exercise treadmill :
Prior to discharge , the patient underwent ETT .
She exercised for three minutes and 40 seconds on the standard Bruce protocol and achieved a peak heart rate of 138 and a peak blood pressure of 145/100 .
This test was stopped because of leg and back pain .
Impression was that the study showed no evidence of ischemia .
History of syphilis :
The patient was treated for syphilis in the 1970&apos;s .
RPR during this admission was reactive .
The RPR titer itself was pending at the time of dictation .
Because of the positive RPR titer , FTA was automatically sent off .
However , the usefulness of the FTA is questionable .
The patient should have a follow-up of her RPR titer .
DISPOSITION :
MEDICATIONS :
On discharge included Procardia XL , 90 mg po q a.m .
The patient was discharged home in stable condition .
The patient will have follow-up in the Kingsec Li Hospital with Dr. Boop on 12/10/92 .
KV968/1032 AYAN NO , M.D. XA4
D :
11/28/92
Batch :
4212
Report :
Z1010S54
T :
12/01/92
Dictated By :
OAZETTE NO , M.D.
