149191520
PUOMC
3759921
96731/48m9
920034
1/26/1994 12:00:00 AM
EPENDYMOMA INVOLVING THE CONUS MEDULLARIS OF THE SPINAL
Unsigned
DIS
Report Status :
Unsigned
ADMISSION DATE :
1-26-94
DISCHARGE DATE :
02-02-94
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS :
Ependymoma involving the conus medullaris of the spinal cord .
PRINCIPAL PROCEDURE :
January 26 , 1994 , intradural microsurgical exploration and biopsy of invasive intramedullary conus tumor .
DOCTORS DISCHARGE ORDERS :
The patient is to rest .
He was given prescriptions for Decadron with a Decadron taper and he was given an out patient appointment to see Dr. Niste Addison in the Radiation Medicine Service to begin out patient radiotherapy .
He was told to have his sutures removed in seven to ten days , and told to call the office if problems or questions arose .
He was also given a prescription for Percocet as needed for pain .
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
This twenty-six year old male was admitted to the Ph University Of Medical Center on January 26 , 1994 to undergo surgical exploration of a conus tumor .
He had previously been evaluated for back pain and found to have a conus tumor on magnetic resonance imaging study .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
Following the standard preoperative evaluation , he was taken to the operating room and underwent a laminectomy T11 , T12 , and L1 and intradural microsurgical exploration .
At the time of surgery we found an invasive conus tumor emanating from the ventral portio of the conus and completely engulfing and encircling all of the ventral nerve roots .
The procedure had been done with intraoperative monitoring , and every time we made an attempt to dissect tumor away from the nerve roots we achieved considerable stimulation of the lower extremity muscles .
We felt that the way the tumor was invading and wrapped around all of the nerves and sharing a common blood supply with them , that it would not be possible to achieve any form of significant surgical decompression or removal of tumor without leading to a substantial neurological deficit .
Therefore , the operation was terminated by placing a large dural graft to provide intradural room with the idea that postoperatively the lesion would be treated with radiation therapy .
The patient tolerated the procedure well .
The postoperative course was without complication .
Pain was managed initially with an intravenous patient controlled analgesia system .
The wound healed without difficulty and the drain was removed .
The patient began to ambulate .
His leg strength was noted to be identical to the way it had been prior to the surgery .
Because of his continued excellent progress , he was allowed to be discharged home on February 2 , 1994 .
RASHANEMAR S. ADDISON , M.D.
TR :
np / bmot
DD :
3-3-94
TD :
03/04/94
CC :
Dr. Rashanemar S. Addison p9
