172897359
FIH
8244699
319757
99267
7/13/1998 12:00:00 AM
Discharge Summary
Unsigned
DIS
Report Status :
Unsigned
DISCHARGE SUMMARY NAME :
ABREUN , BRIANG N
UNIT NUMBER :
245-99-08
ADMISSION DATE :
07/13/1998
DISCHARGE DATE :
09/20/1998
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS :
Necrotizing fascitis of the right thigh .
ASSOCIATED DIAGNOSIS :
Diabetes mellitus , hypothyroidism , anasarca , pulmonary nodules , anemia , prerenal azotemia , methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus pneumonia .
PRINCIPAL PROCEDURE :
Wound debridement and split thickness skin grafting on August 17 , 1998 .
ASSOCIATED PROCEDURES :
Tracheostomy and gastrostomy placement , endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography .
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
Ms. Abreun is a fifty nine-year-old white female who was recently diagnosed on May 1998 with non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus , hypothyroidism and iron deficiency anemia .
In late May of 1998 , she fell in the bath tub and had a small avulsion fracture of the left elbow .
One month later she presented to an outside hospital complaining of pain in her right hip .
A CT scan performed there demonstrated gas in the subcutaneous soft tissues .
She was begun on Cefazolin and Flagyl .
A surgical consultation was obtained and she was taken to the operating room for a wide debridement of the right hip distally through the right knee on the lateral and anterior aspects of the right thigh .
On July 13 , 1998 , she was transferred from his outside hospital post debridement to the Fairm of Ijordcompmac Hospital for further care and management of her wound .
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY :
1. Non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus , diagnosed in May 1998 .
2. Hypothyroidism , diagnosed twenty five years ago , but untreated for the past several years .
3. Iron deficiency anemia .
4. Candidiasis of the groin , tinea pedis .
5. Diagnosis of nodular density on chest x-ray .
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY :
Hemorrhoidectomy .
Wound debridement , as above .
ALLERGIES :
No known drug allergies .
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION :
Synthroid 0.125 milligrams po q day .
Diabeta 7.5 milligrams po q day .
Iron sulfate 325 milligrams PO t.i.d. Unasyn 3 grams intravenously q 6 hours .
Insulin SS .
Multivitamins .
Folate .
Colace 100 milligrams PO b.i.d.
Tylenol # 3 with Codeine 1 to 2 po q 6 whenever necessary .
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION :
The patient was sedated and intubated on admission .
At presentation demonstrated a woman was hypothermic to 96.1 degrees farenheit .
She was intubated on a pressure support of 10 , peep of 5 and rate of 6 with an FIO2 of 0.4 .
She was in sinus rhythm at 95 beats per minute .
Head , eyes , ears , nose and throat examination remarkable only for evidence malnutrition and temporal wasting .
Pulmonary , lungs clear to auscultation bilaterally .
Cardiac ; regular S1 , S2 , no murmurs , gallops or rubs .
Abdomen edema and anasarca is present up to the level of the umbilicus .
Abdomen is non-tender , bowel sounds are normal active , no masses are palpable .
Lower extremity , venous stasis changes are present bilaterally .
There is a deep cavity status post debridement of her right lateral lower extremity extending from the greater trochanter to the knee .
The wound is packed with wet to dry sterile guaze .
The tissue appears healthy and bleeds easily .
LABORATORY :
Bun 22 , creatinine 0.5 , total protein 3.7 , albumin 0.9 , bilirubin direct 0.4 , total 0.9 , alkaline phosphatase 158 , amylase 20 , arterial blood gases demonstrates a pH of 7.54 , PCO2 of 30 , O2 128 , FIO2 0.4 .
White blood count 20 , hematocrit 29.2 , platelet count 279,000 , prothrombin time 15 , partial thromboplastin time 31.4 .
Outside chest x-ray dated July 2 , 1998 demonstrates multiple tiny dense nodules in the lateral and superior left lung with scattered nodules in the right upper lung .
These nodules are confirmed by chest CT and demonstrated to be smaller than 3 millimeter peripheral nodules appearing in both lung apices .
The CT also demonstrated questionable right hepatic hemangioma and multiple tubular hypodensities were hepatic veins should be .
HOSPITAL COURSE AND TREATMENT :
Because of the extensiveness of Ms. Abreun &apos;s hospital course it will be organized by system :
1. Neurological :
On admission the patient was intubated and sedated .
Her sedation was gradually weaned during her first month in the Intensive Care Unit and she was noted to have an underlying depression and history of obsessive compulsive disorder as listed from the patient and her family .
A psychiatric evaluation was obtained and she was placed on Paxil at 5 milligrams which was gradually increased to a total of 20 milligrams po q day at the time of her admission .
On August 29th , Ms. Abreun again required sedation when she found apneic and hypotensive .
She spent several days in the Intensive Care Unit at that time , during which her sedation was gradually weaned back to off .
2. Pulmonary :
Ms. Abreun was admitted , sedated and on a respirator , requiring minimal settings with a pressure support of 10 and a pep of 5 .
After two weeks of intubation on July 25th the patient went to the operating room for a tracheostomy which she tolerated without issue .
Over the next several weeks , the ventilatory support was gradually weaned to off .
By August 9th she was tolerating trach mask trials and was on the verge of tracheostomy removal by August 29th .
At this time , she had a sudden episode of respiratory distress accompanied by hypotension and unresponsiveness .
She was bag masked and taken immediately to the Intensive Care Unit where she was placed on respiratory support with SIMV settings which were gradually weaned over the course of her ten days in the Intensive Care Unit .
After her wean from the respiratory , she was transferred back to the floor and over the next several days tolerated trach mask trials admirably and had her tracheostomy removed on September 16th , 1998 .
At the time of her discharge , she had no acute respiratory issues .
3. Cardiovascular :
Ms. Abreun was admitted on cardiac support requiring 30 of Neo-Synephrine .
She was placed on a Swan Gans catheter monitor and gradually weaned off the Neo-Synephrine by the 22nd of July .
She required no further support and had no further issues until August 29th when she had her respiratory crisis and was transferred to the unit .
At this time her dramatic pressure drop required Dopamine support at levels of 500 micrograms per minute .
A Swan Gans catheter floated at this time demonstrated an SVR of 500 .
She was supported with Dopamine and with fluid and was slow to come off the Dopamine requiring approximately 8 to 10 days for full weaning .
After the wean she required no further cardiac medication and had no further issues .
4. Renal :
Ms. Abreun &apos;s fluid management was an important contributor to her hospital course .
She presented with massive ascites and anasarca for which she received large volume diuresis with regular Lasix dosing daily .
Renal parameters were normal until the time of her respiratory cardiovascular crisis on August 29th .
At this time , it was noted that her bun jumped to levels of approximately 80 , while her creatinine stayed at levels of .6 to .7 .
An elevation by Dr. Freiermthalskush of renal medicine at first suspected a subclinical congestive heart failure as being responsible for a prerenal azotemia , however on further elucidation of the patient &apos;s course , it is evident that a broad sepsis caused by her pneumonia was responsible for her decreased SVR and eventual renal hypoperfusion .
Her azotemia responded readily to pressor support and fluid resuscitation .
At the end of her second Intensive Care Unit admission , her bun and creatinine had resolved to normal values .
5. Gastrointestinal :
Ms. Abreun was admitted nothing by mouth , intubated on intravenous fluids alone .
She was immediately begun on total parenteral nutrition therapy for what would be a prolonged course without PO intake .
On July 25th a G tube was placed and feeds were begun gradually .
These G tube feeds were gradually increased with a total parenteral nutrition wean , however at the time of her re-admission to the Intensive Care Unit on August 29th aspiration was suspected and all tube feeds were held .
She was maintained on total parenteral nutrition for the course of her time in the Intensive Care Unit .
At the end of this time , she was begun gradually on G tube feeding , however she was able to tolerate only very small volumes and produce large aspirates .
This problem had remained and been ongoing for the remainder of her hospital at Fairm of Ijordcompmac Hospital .
She is currently being supported on tube feeds of Vivonex at a rate of approximately 20 and hour with aspirates being measured q 4 hours and measuring from 30 to 250 regularly .
She has also been supplemented with Glutamine 10 grams b.i.d. via the G tube in hopes of reviving what most certainly be her gut atrophy from prolonged disuse .
Ms. Abreun , from the onset of her stay at Fairm of Ijordcompmac Hospital demonstrated elevated alkaline phosphatase levels in isolation from her other liver function tests .
These values ranging as high as 2300 were evaluated by gastrointestinal consult who came and performed and endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography which demonstrated a normal biliary system with diameters on the large end of normal .
Stone was demonstrated in the gallbladder , but there was no evidence of obstruction and the study was ready as normal .
5 &apos;nucleotidase values have also been elevated ranging from 150 to 180 .
To date there has been no satisfactory explanation for these elevations in alkaline phosphatase and 5 &apos;nucleotidase and all associated studies have been negative .
Further evaluation of this during her later hospital stay or as an outpatient .
6. Infectious disease :
Ms. Abreun underwent a work up for tuberculosis at the beginning of her hospital course .
She ruled out by PPD .
The initial management of her necrotizing fascitis was empiric with Imipenem , Flagyl and Vancomycin .
Because of the extent of her wound , she was also treated with hyperbaric oxygen which was of some benefit in resolving her infection .
The course of Flagyl , Imipenem and Vancomycin was continued for fourteen days .
At this time Imipenem were discontinued and Vancomycin was maintained alone for additional several days .
She then went without antibiotic therapy for a period of several weeks until her crisis of August 29th .
ON admission to the unit , she was begun on triple antibiotic therapy with Levo / Vanc/Flagyl .
Shortly thereafter Gentamicin was added to the regimen which was maintained for a period of one week until cultures came back and her therapy could be stream lined to Vancomycin , Levofloxacin alone .
After a ten day course of Levofloxacin it was discontinued , Vancomycin was maintained for five additional days , after which time , it was discontinued as well and she was without antibiotics .
On discharge , she was currently taking no antibiotics .
Ms. Abreun entered the Fairm of Ijordcompmac Hospital having taking only oral hypoglycemic agents for control of her diabetes .
Because of the stress of her infection and Intensive Care Unit admission she was requiring sliding scale Insulin for the full course of her hospital stay .
Her total parenteral nutrition was also supplemented with Insulin NPH for better control .
Her total parenteral nutrition is currently supplemented with 30 units NPH q day and she is on a sliding scale to control the remainder of her sugars .
Ms. Abreun &apos;s hypothyroidism diagnosed shortly before her admission was an important aspect of her therapy during her course at Fairm of Ijordcompmac Hospital .
Her thyroid necessity was poorly controlled with a Synthroid dose of 0.125 milligrams for the majority of her stay .
At the time of her admission to the Intensive Care Unit on August 29th it was noted that she had a thyroid stimulating hormone that was dramatically raised to a value of 26.83 .
More active supplementation was performed increasing her dose to .3 milligrams q day , which caused a rapid resolution of her thyroid studies and an improvement in her physiology almost immediately .
She has since been maintained on a dose of 0.2 milligrams IV q d .
However , she has had a gradual rise in her thyroid stimulating hormone to a value of 6.68 .
Her discharge medication will include Synthroid dose of 0.3 milligrams po q day with recommendation that this parameter be followed closely .
IN SUMMARY :
Ms. Abreun is a fifty nine-year-old female who presented with necrotizing fascitis of the right hip , status post debridement , severely debilitated by the extent of her infection .
Over the course of 2 months this infection was cleared , the wound was cleaned and split thickness skin grafting was successful in covering over the wound .
Her course , however was complicated by an methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus pneumonia which was resistant to therapy and which produced a profound sepsis which caused a hypotensive ana apneic episode which required Intensive Care Unit support for a period of a week .
Her course was also complicated by her hypoactive thyroid function which went unrecognized for some period , but has since resolved with aggressive Synthroid therapy .
Currently , her most issues are the advancement of her tube feeds and the restarting of her PO intake which was planned to begin for the next several days before her transfer was initiated .
Her wound also requires further care as smaller areas of non-take in the graft are being management with sterile saline wet to dry dressings .
CONDITION ON DISCHARGE :
Stable with issues resolving .
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE :
Heparin 5,000 units sub q b.i.d.
Prilosec 20 milligrams per G tube q day .
Paxil 10 milligrams per G tube q.h.s.
Milk of Magnesia 30 ccs per G tube q.h.s.
Lotrimin cream b.i.d. to effected areas .
Nystatin powder b.i.d. to effected areas .
Lasix 20 milligrams intravenous q day .
Synthroid 0.3 milligrams per G tube q day .
Reglan 10 milligrams per G tube t.i.d.
Peri-Colace 15 ccs per G tube q.h.s.
Glutamine 10 grams diluted as necessary per G tube t.i.d.
Ativan 0.5 milligrams to 1 milligrams per G tube or sublingual q 6 hours whenever necessary .
Insulin sliding scale as follows ; 0 to 70 call house officer , 70 to 200 no insulin , 201 to 250 2 units of insulin , 251 to 300 4 units of insulin , 301 to 350 6 units of insulin , 351 to 400 8 units of insulin , 401 or above 10 units of insulin and call house officer .
The patient is also receiving total parenteral nutrition as designed by the nutritional services at Fairm of Ijordcompmac Hospital .
INSTRUCTIONS :
Dressing changes with sterile saline wet to dry guaze bandages on areas of breakdown on the graft .
The patient is currently nothing by mouth and will require a modified barium swallow before beginning po feeds .
Physical therapy and occupational therapy to work with patient daily in improving activity and working toward ambulation .
DISPOSITION :
Follow up with primary care physician Dr. Vontha Elkszuk , phone number ( 644 ) 075-7150 .
STA BODEJOVE , M.D.
DICTATING FOR :
REY CAFFEFALMYORETLAND , M.D.
TR :
ug
DD :
09/19/1998
TD :
09/20/1998 6:54 A
cc :
REY SALBMO CAFFEFALMYORETLAND , M.D. VONTHA ELKSZUK , M.D./ ( 644 ) 075-7150 .
