186937457
PUOMC
1848548
389609
738587
7/15/1998 12:00:00 AM
Discharge Summary
Unsigned
DIS
Report Status :
Unsigned
DISCHARGE SUMMARY
NAME :
SLEMNEAVKOTE , PAUCI
UNIT NUMBER :
214-61-48
ADMISSION DATE :
07/15/98
DISCHARGE DATE :
07/30/98
CAUSE OF DEATH AND PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS :
Subarachnoid hemorrhage .
ASSOCIATED DIAGNOSIS :
Atrial fibrillation , hypertension , epistaxis and history of cerebrovascular accident .
PRINCIPAL PROCEDURE :
Ventriculostomy placement on 7/15/98 .
ASSOCIATED PROCEDURES :
Cerebral angiogram on 7/15/98 and flexible bronchoscopy on 7/16/98 and 7/27/98 .
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
Mr. A was a 74-year-old right handed white male with a history of left middle cerebral artery cerebrovascular accident who on July 15th was asleep and awoke at approximately 1:00 AM with the worst headache of his life .
Per his wife , the patient had been in his regular state of health except for complaints of a bifrontal severe headache .
He had a photophobia and thereafter some nausea and vomiting .
Per his wife , he was otherwise without any symptoms .
He was taken first to Vaila Medical Center where he arrived at about 3:00 AM and a CT scan showed ? basal subarachnoid hemorrhage and hydrocephalus .
He was loaded with Dilantin , placed on Decadron and transferred to the Ph University Of Medical Center .
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY :
Remarkable for cerebrovascular accident in 1994 .
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION :
Coumadin 3 mg. per day prior to admission .
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION :
He was found to be an obese male with eyes closed .
He was vomiting and sleepy .
His vital signs were remarkable for a blood pressure of 195/100 .
His mental status exam showed him to be very sleepy and he moved to sternal rub and loud voice .
He was oriented to his name , Ph University Of Medical Center and 1997 and was able to follow simple commands .
His motor exam showed a slight right drift and he was not cooperative with cerebellar testing .
His physical examination also showed pupils at 3-2 mm. bilaterally and he blinked to threat .
His INR was 3.8 on admission .
SUMMARY OF LABORATORY AND RADIOLOGIC EXAMINATIONS :
A CT scan on admission showed a pre-pontine subarachnoid hemorrhage with minimal spread to the sylvian fissure .
He had significant hydrocephalus with a small intraventricular hemorrhage .
HOSPITAL COURSE AND TREATMENT :
Mr. A was admitted to the Neurosurgery Service with a diagnosis of subarachnoid hemorrhage and hydrocephalus .
He was found to be unable to protect his airway , so was intubated in the emergency room .
His anticoagulation was immediately reversed with FFP and he received several additional units of FFP during the hospital course .
He had a cerebral angiogram performed on July 15th which was unrevealing .
It showed no aneurysm and no dissection and no shunting lesions .
He had a ventriculostomy placed by the Neurosurgery Service on July 15th .
Mr. A was transferred to the Neuroscience Intensive Care Unit on July 15th .
Neurologically , his lesions were inoperable , but he received treatment with Dilantin and the ventriculostomy tube to control his intracranial pressure .
His neurological exam deteriorated over the first week of admission to the extent that he was at times responsive to voice by opening his eyes , but was not able to follow commands .
He moved his left side more than his right side in response to stimulation .
Cardiovascularly , he developed atrial fibrillation and hypertension during the hospital course and was managed by Dr. Gach of Cardiology .
Infectious Disease issues included serial fevers of unknown source .
Cultures from multiple sites never grew out any organisms .
He was on antibiotics for several days while in Intensive Care .
Gastrointestinally , he was unable to tolerate tube feeds and was started on total parenteral nutrition .
Pulmonary wise , he was maintained on a ventilator throughout the hospital course until the day of expiration .
Mr. A &apos;s neurologic condition was stable at the baseline exam as described above .
His family had a meeting with Dr. Liftjesc , Dr. Telshey Vital , and Dr. Tineara Rhalt of the Neurosurgical ICU .
This meeting took place on July 30th from 10:00 AM until approximately noon .
The family decided at this time that they wished to withdraw care from Mr. A .
They wished that he be extubated and that all medical treatment except for comfort measures be pursued .
Accordingly , the wishes of the family were attended to .
At approximately 1:45 PM on July 30th , his ventriculostomy tube was discontinued .
Shortly thereafter , his arterial line was removed .
Following this , at approximately 2:05 PM , his endotracheal tube was removed .
Mr. A immediately became bradycardic and desaturated .
At 2:10 PM on July 30th , he expired .
Mr. A , was immediately notified .
She refused an autopsy and agreed to donation of needed organ or tissue .
The Ph University Of Medical Center Admitting Desk was also notified as were Dr. Liftjesc , Dr. Telshey Vital , Dr. Azel Hibbskays , and the patient &apos;s primary care physician , Dr. Tomedankell Flowayles .
The Ebeairs Baxt Insum General Hospital was contacted .
SAY REKE , M.D.
DICTATING FOR :
TELSHEY K. VITAL , M.D.
TR :
uev
DD :
07/30/98
TD :
07/30/98 3:21 P
cc :
KETYVI L LIFTJESC , M.D. TELSHEY K VITAL , M.D. TOMEDANKELL D FLOWAYLES , M.D. , Ph.D SAY REKE , M.D. STAT
