229701189
PUOMC
9134959
849659
813598
02/11/1997 12:00:00 AM
HEPATITIS B-RELATED CIRRHOSIS .
Unsigned
DIS
Report Status :
Unsigned
DISCHARGE SUMMARY
NAME :
HIBBSLIRES , LOJOA M
UNIT NUMBER :
690-02-35
ADMISSION DATE :
02/11/97
DISCHARGE DATE :
02/28/97
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS :
Hepatitis B-related cirrhosis .
ASSOCIATED DIAGNOSIS :
Tuberculosis in childhood .
(2) Hepatic encephalopathy .
(3) Grade I esophageal varices .
(4) Hepatic hydrothorax on the right .
(5) peptic ulcer disease .
PRINCIPAL PROCEDURE :
Repeated pleurocentesis .
Chest tube placement on the right .
Endotracheal intubation .
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
REASON FOR HOSPITALIZATION :
This is a 60-year-old Mandarin speaking gentleman , with a long history of end-stage liver disease secondary to Hepatitis B. infection diagnosed approximately six years prior to admission , who now presents with recurrence of right-sided hydrothorax thought to be related as an ascitic equivalent on the right side .
The patient has been admitted multiple times with this symptom , and in this setting , was called in to the hospital by his primary care doctor on the day of admission for increasing shortness of breath , and dyspnea on exertion .
He was admitted to the Medical Service where he was found to have a transudative , right-sided effusion thought again to be the equivalent of his ascites on the basis of end-stage liver disease .
It was tapped and drained with placement of a chest tube .
The chest tube was removed , but then replaced on the 14th of February , and maintained a continuous and large volume output .
The patient was evaluated by the Liver Transplant Service , and on the end of his first week of admission , became increasingly somnolent with exam findings consistent with evolving hepatic encephalopathy .
This change in mental status remained refractory to medical management , and in the setting of recurrent spiking fevers and worsening renal function , he was transferred to the Intensive Care Unit on the 17th of February , 1997 .
In the Intensive Care Unit , his chest tube continued to have massive volume output , and an increasing number of white cells with a left shift were noted in the transudated fluid .
He has not been considered as a candidate for a TIPPS or for pleurodesis , given his position at the top of the transplant list for his blood type , B .
Early in his Intensive Care Unit admission , Mr. Hibbslires was intubated and ventilated , placed on broad antibiotic coverage including Vancomycin , Fluconazole , Ceftazidime , and Flagyl .
His renal function continued to worsen and he developed hypervolemic hyponatremia , and hemodynamic parameters consistent with sepsis .
Blood cultures in this setting grew out Staphylococcus aureus and antibiotic coverage was altered to cover this organism appropriately .
During the first week of February in spite of antibiosis , the patient developed worsening renal failure , became anuric , and developed rapid progression in spite of his chest tube of the right-sided hydrothorax in addition to diffuse pulmonary infiltrates consistent with adult respiratory distress syndrome vs. extreme volume overload .
He became dependent on pressers .
On the 26th of February , the patient had an extremely large volume gastrointestinal bleed , and worsened hepatic encephalopathy .
In consultation with the patient &apos;s primary doctor , Dr. Leynslentnerswaimjesc and with his gastrointestinal physician , Dr. Loydbreunlinke , and with the patient &apos;s family , the decision was made in the setting of his grim prognosis and multiple morbidities that further aggressive treatment would not be pursued .
The patient was evaluated for continuous venous venous hemodialysis , which in the end in the setting of the family &apos;s wishes , was not begun with this patient .
On the 27th of February , the patient succumbed to overwhelming sepsis and anuric renal failure , and hypervolemia .
The time of death was 5:16 A.M. on the 27th of February , 1997 .
The family was present .
Dr. Leynslentnerswaimjesc , Lau , and Launtburce were notified .
_______________________ CIE S. FALESCOURC , M.D.
TR :
dfn
DD :
09/01/97
TD :
09/01/97 11:44 P
cc :
SHAUNDNA RAANA LOYDBREUNLINKE , M.D. LENNI EENAHILDE DOSE , M.D. LAU LEYNSLENTNERSWAIMJESC , M.D.
