234794070
PRGH
16311127
179944
3/11/1998 12:00:00 AM
RIGHT HIP FRACTURE
Signed
DIS
Admission Date :
03/11/1998
Report Status :
Signed
Discharge Date :
03/16/1998
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS :
Right hip fracture .
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient is an 86 year old female who presented to the Emergency Department after having a fall .
She was outside the Tarcet Health Systems when she tripped on a curb on 03/11/98 .
The fall was witnessed by her son , who presented to the Emergency Room with her .
She had complaints of right hip pain and was unable to ambulate .
She denied any loss of consciousness , syncope , or hitting her head .
She was taken to the Tarcet Health Systems Emergency Department , where x-rays were obtained that demonstrated a right femoral neck fracture that was displaced .
The patient was transferred to Verg Medical Center for further treatment .
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY :
1. Dementia .
2. Previous hypertension .
3. Squamous cell skin lesion on forehead , status post recent excision .
4. Total abdominal hysterectomy .
MEDICATIONS :
1. Paxil 10 mg q d .
2. Aerosept 25 mg q d .
ALLERGIES :
No known drug allergies .
SOCIAL HISTORY :
The patient denies any tobacco use .
She states that she occasionally has an alcoholic beverage .
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS :
The patient denied any coronary artery disease , pulmonary disease , peptic ulcer disease , or diabetes .
She had no symptoms in her history of chest pain or shortness of breath .
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION :
VITAL SIGNS :
Temperature 98.9 , heart rate 66 , blood pressure 136/70 .
GENERAL :
The patient was awake , alert , and oriented x 3 .
HEENT :
Normal , with no signs of trauma .
Mucous membranes were moist .
Oropharynx was clear .
CARDIAC :
Regular rate and rhythm .
CHEST :
Clear to auscultation bilaterally .
ABDOMEN :
Soft , non-tender .
EXTREMITIES :
The right lower extremity was shortened and externally rotated .
Pulses in the distal right lower extremity were 2+ .
Capillary refill was brisk in the right toes .
Sensory was intact to light tough throughout the right lower extremity .
The patient had pain , therefore no range of motion testing of the right hip was performed , as we knew it was fractured .
The left lower extremity was without deformities and had 2+ pulses .
SKIN :
Intact throughout the right lower extremity .
DIAGNOSTIC STUDIES :
Radiograph of the pelvis and right hip demonstrated a displaced femoral neck fracture with varus angulation .
Chest x-ray demonstrated no acute processes .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
The patient was admitted to the Orthopedic Surgery service and plans were made to take the patient to the Operating Room on the day of admission for a right hip hemarthroplasty .
Consent was obtained from the patient &apos;s son .
Medically , the patient was determined to be stable for the Operating Room after the Emergency Department spoke with the covering physician for her primary care physician , Dr. Roglom .
The patient was taken to the Operating Room on 03/11/98 and a right hip hemarthroplasty was performed .
The patient remained hemodynamically stable intraoperatively and postoperatively .
She remained neurovascularly stable .
The patient tolerated the procedure well .
She had some slight confusion afterwards in the Recovery Room , which resolved .
Hematocrit remained stable postoperatively .
The patient was placed on perioperative Kefzol therapy and Coumadin therapy for DVT prophylaxis .
The patient had a sitter for the first night to ensure her safety , as she had some slight confusion .
At her baseline , it was noted that she had some mild dementia .
She was alert on postoperative day one and did very well .
The wound was healing well throughout her hospital course .
A Physical Therapy consult was obtained for weightbearing as tolerated instructions for right lower extremity .
The patient did well but it was determined the patient would need an inpatient rehabilitation stay , as she lived alone prior to coming to the hospital .
Plans were made for discharge to rehab .
The patient stayed in to hospital until 03/16/98 waiting for a bed to be available at rehab .
She continued to do well and was discharged to rehab on 03/16/98 in good condition .
INSTRUCTIONS :
The patient is to have daily wound checks and to have blood draws twice a week for Coumadin therapy .
The patient should follow up with Dr. Kayskote in approximately six weeks ; she should call to schedule an appointment .
The patient will have inpatient rehab therapy as directed by the Physical Therapy referral .
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS :
1. Coumadin 2 mg p.o. q d. and then as directed per M.D.
2. Paxil 10 mg p.o. q d .
3. Aerosept 25 mg p.o. q d .
4. Percocet one to two tabs p.o. q 4 h. p.r.n. pain .
Dictated By :
AJO CUCHKOTE , M.D. LF99
Attending :
YACANDTA E. KAYSKOTE , M.D. LK19 WY590/2717
Batch :
91887
Index No. MYTGS56ASH
D :
03/16/98
T :
03/16/98
