237073320
FIH
9746390
797120
251605
01/26/1998 12:00:00 AM
Discharge Summary
Unsigned
DIS
Report Status :
Unsigned
DISCHARGE SUMMARY NAME :
SHUFF , RONHUM
UNIT NUMBER :
172-00-89
ADMISSION DATE :
01/26/1998
DISCHARGE DATE :
02/22/1998
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS :
Acute inferior wall myocardial infarction .
Cardiogenic shock .
Atrial fibrillation .
Old stroke .
Mild dementia .
Hematuria with atypical urinary cytology .
SPECIAL PROCEDURES AND OPERATIONS :
Cardiac catheterization with coronary angiography 28 January 1998 .
DOCTORS DISCHARGE ORDERS :
Ticlid 250 mg. d until March 9 .
Prilosec 20 mg. d .
Amiodarone 200 mg. y .
Coumadin as adjusted by prothrombin times .
Digoxin 0.125 mg. y .
Multivitamin one tablet daily and Albuterol nebulizers qid .
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient is a 69 year old woman from Maine without prior history of overt cardiac disease .
She does have a history of peripheral edema on Dyazide .
She has been a smoker and presented on the day of admission with dizziness .
She was in her usual state of health until two to three days prior to admission when she noted intermittent dizziness and felt weak .
She denied chest pain , shortness of breath , nausea or vomiting .
On the morning of admission to the Haold Memorial Hospital she went out to feed some birds and then felt weak , came back , was dizzy and was somewhat diaphoretic .
Her sister with whom she lives insisted that she seek medical care and she was brought to the Haold Memorial Hospital emergency room and was found to have a pulse of 61 and blood pressure of 91/45 .
The electrocardiogram done there showed evidence of an inferior wall infarction with ST segment elevations in leads 2 , 3 and AVF and ST depressions in leads V1 through V4 and AVL .
Right sided leads did not provide evidence of a right ventricular infarction .
She was given Streptokinase , aspirin , Dopamine for hypotension and Atropine with external Zoll pacemaker after bradycardia into the 30 &apos;s developed .
The blood sugar was elevated at 208 .
The BUN was 24 and creatinine 1.7 .
The uric acid 11.2 and initial CK was 35 .
When she developed wide complex tachycardia she was given a Lidocaine bolus and brought to the FIH by helicopter .
In the emergency room she appeared hemodynamically stable initially and the Dopamine was weaned off .
The electrocardiogram taken here showed the ST segment elevations had diminished considerably but there were continued reciprocal changes in the anterior leads .
She had a few beats of wide complex tachycardia .
Her only medication was Dyazide .
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION :
She was a pleasant rather vague obese woman in no acute distress .
The pulse was 68 to 80 and the blood pressure 95/52 .
The respirations 18 and she was afebrile .
The jugular veins were not distended .
The carotids were full .
There were no bruits .
The chest was clear with distant breath sounds .
The cardiac rhythm was regular with frequent premature beats and no murmur .
There were no rubs .
The abdomen was obese without palpable organs or masses .
There was no peripheral edema .
There were good dorsalis pedis and posterior tibialis pulses bilaterally .
There was decreased vibratory sense on neurological examination but there was no asterixis .
Her electrolytes were normal with a BUN of 24 and creatinine 1.9 .
The cholesterol was 171 .
Triglycerides 103 .
By this time her CK was 600 .
Her hematocrit was 37.1 .
Hemoglobin 12.8 and white blood count 7800 .
The PT was 19.3 and PTT 34.8 .
Review of the electrocardiograms from Haold Memorial Hospital demonstrated atrial flutter with variable conduction .
She was in sinus tachycardia here with right bundle branch block and continued ST segment elevation with Qs in 3 and AVF .
She was admitted to the Coronary Care Unit where she continued to have intermittent marked bradycardia with junctional rhythm and relatively low blood pressures and runs of flow ventricular tachycardia .
She became increasingly disoriented .
She developed first degree AV block and then Wenckebach block .
The chest films showed mild cephalization .
She became very drowsy with sedation when she developed some agitation and required intubation .
She went to the cardiac catheterization laboratory because of low cardiac output and shock .
She had ventricular pacing and the cardiac output came up to 2.3 .
Catheter study then revealed right coronary occlusion with no significant left sided disease .
The right coronary artery had a large burden of intravascular thrombus and she was eventually able to have the clot cleared and a near 2.5 stent was placed with good result .
She had TIMI 2 to 3 flow in the right coronary artery after stenting and removal of clot from the right coronary artery .
She continued to have intermittent runs of ventricular tachycardia .
She remained intubated but her hemodynamics improved somewhat .
Dobutamine was diminished because of the wide complex tachycardia and she developed atrial fibrillation .
She was initially tried on intravenous Pronestyl in an attempt to restore sinus rhythm .
She was later switched to Amiodarone but there continued to be no effect on her atrial fibrillation .
Eventually her lines were able to be withdrawn and she was moved to the floor .
She had a lot of wheezing and in late January she had continued elevated wedge pressure and her creatinine started to rise to 3.2 and then 4 with nonoliguric renal failure .
She was then returned to the Unit where she underwent further monitoring .
The BUN rose to 91 .
Her Digoxin level was 1.9 on February 6 .
She was able eventually to be extubated and moved back to the floor .
Efforts to mobilize her began in early January and an echocardiogram demonstrated an ejection fraction of 49% .
The right ventricular function was normal .
After extubation she developed a considerable amount of upper respiratory stridor which was treated initially with Decadron .
The patient was seen in consultation by ENT consultants who found that she had some hardened inspissated secretions in the region of the vocal cords , glottic inlet and subglottis .
There was no structural abnormality .
Moistened oxygen and Mucomyst was given with eventual restoration of her voice and diminution in her stridor .
She continued a rather slow improvement .
The patient was seen in consultation by Drs. Morning and Morning because of the abnormalities of renal function .
The possibility of renal artery stenosis was raised and she eventually was able to have a MRI .
She had some hematuria and was seen by Dr. Ryna Jescdrig .
Renal and bladder ultrasounds were normal .
She had abnormal urinary cytology however and Dr. Jescdrig strongly recommended that this be followed up by cystoscopy when she is able to do that .
That can take place either here at his office or in Aersing Rocuch Sun or when she returns to Carfachemoses Hospital .
Because of alternating and fluctuating mental status , she had a head CT scan which showed small area of intracranial bleeding .
This was followed up and was shown to resolve .
MR angiogram revealed no evidence of renal artery stenosis .
A MRI of the head because of the small area of bleeding was done to look for amyloid angiopathy which would have made anticoagulation dangerous .
She was then begun on Coumadin when none was found and is now being transferred to rehabilitation in hopes of her eventual return to her home with her sister on Carfachemoses Hospital .
SHASQUALENA R. IM , M.D.
TR :
wqf
DD :
02/21/1998
TD :
02/22/1998 8:41 A
cc :
SHASQUALENA ROSEKE IM , M.D. STAT
