244815666
HLGMC
4449923
02133/2wwh
3/3/1994 12:00:00 AM
Discharge Summary
Unsigned
DIS
Report Status :
Unsigned
ADMISSION DATE :
03/03/94
DISCHARGE DATE :
03/06/94
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS :
1. Gait ataxia .
2. Communicating hydrocephalus .
SPECIAL PROCEDURES :
Lumbar puncture 3/5/94 .
DOCTORS DISCHARGE ORDERS :
Cimetidine 400 mg po b.i.d. ; aspirin 80 mg po q.d. ; Ventolin two puffs q.i.d. ;
WORK DISABILITY AND PROBABLE DURATION :
Permanent .
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
This 75-year-old right handed man with a past history of migraine , peripheral neuropathy , gait ataxia , and microvascular leukomalacia on magnetic resonance imaging study , was admitted because of an abrupt worsening of walking .
He had a history of progressive gait ataxia since 1989 , worsening over the past few months , and a recent decline in memory and concentration .
Migraine headaches with visual changes , headache and photophobia had been present for many years .
A peripheral neuropathy was first diagnosed in 1989 , cause undetermined .
Increased imbalance occurred in 1991 , at which time he was unable to walk tandem and swayed on the Romberg test .
Thoracic and cervical spine magnetic resonance imaging study were normal .
Brain magnetic resonance imaging study showed atrophy and microvascular leukomalacia .
He had an episode of headache , flashing light , confusion and possible loss of consciousness in November , 1993 , at which time an magnetic resonance imaging study of the brain was unchanged and MRA was negative .
Memory , gait and occasional urinary incontinence worsened after that time .
The present admission was prompted by an episode of inability to walk at all for the past two or three days .
A computerized tomography scan done in the emergency room showed enlarged ventricles , suggestive of communicating hydrocephalus .
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION :
Pulse 72 and regular .
Blood pressure 154/90 .
He was alert and fully oriented , but had some trouble remembering current events and made one error in the Tom and Bill story after ten minutes .
There was no aphasia .
He was unable to get up from the bed without help .
Gait was quite ataxic , with short steps , requiring support , but no freezing in place .
He swayed backward on the Romberg test .
Upward gaze was decreased .
Cranial nerves otherwise normal .
Slight left iliopsoas weakness .
Tendon reflex is absent .
Plantars withal , possibly bilaterally extensor .
No Hoffmann reflexes .
No frontal lobe release signs .
Coordination normal .
Mild decreased vibration and position sense in the toes .
Pin prick sensation decreased below the ankles .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
Routine laboratory studies were negative .
The computerized tomography scan showed the findings described above .
A therapeutic lumbar puncture was planned on the day after emergency admission , but his gait was noted to be considerably improved at that time , and the lumbar puncture was postponed until March 5 , at which time 40 cc were removed .
The cerebrospinal fluid was benign .
There was slight further improvement of gait , mainly less unsteadiness , but no change in speed .
The gait was essentially what it had been before the episode of worsening prior to admission , moderate ataxia , slight flexed posture , very slight shuffling .
It was felt that this response and the presentation raised a definite question of symptomatic normal pressure hydrocephalus , but that this could not be diagnosed definitely at this time .
It was decided to continue to follow Mr. Fyfeshuff on an outpatient basis , with a follow up appointment in one month .
If there is significant deterioration of gait , shunt treatment will be reconsidered .
STA T. TITCHEGRIESESC , M.D.
TR :
qy / bmot
DD :
03/06/94
TD :
03/07/94
CC :
Copy to Dr. Keirnneve .
Copy to Dr. Breutzoln .
