284137413 TH
69486159
1375132
7/27/2006 12:00:00 AM
RT. OVARIAN MASS
Signed
DIS
Admission Date :
07/27/2006
Report Status :
Signed
Discharge Date :
08/04/2006
ATTENDING :
EAK , NA MD
SERVICE :
Gynecology .
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS :
Hemorrhagic right ovarian cyst , status post laparoscopy converted to laparotomy , right salpingo-oophorectomy , lysis of dense ileal adhesions with enterotomy , ileal resection with primary anastomosis .
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
Ms. Straight is a 48-year-old G2 , P2 who presented on referral to Dr. Eak for evaluation with a 9-cm pelvic mass and complaint of abdominal pelvic pain .
Her gynecological history is notable for endometriosis and Ms. Straight is status post total abdominal hysterectomy in 2002 .
Her CA-125 preoperatively was 23 .
Ms. Straight was consented for diagnostic laparoscopy , excision of pelvic mass , and possible removal of right ovary .
Operative risks were reviewed with the patient per Dr. Eak including the risks of conversion to laparotomy .
She had a preoperative bowel prep .
PAST GYN HISTORY :
Endometriosis , status post total abdominal hysterectomy in 2002 for fibroids .
PAST OB HISTORY :
G2 , P2 .
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY :
History of functional heart murmur .
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY :
In 1995 bilateral breast implants , in 2002 total abdominal hysterectomy for fibroids .
ALLERGIES :
No known drug allergies .
SOCIAL HISTORY :
Denies smoking , alcohol use .
FAMILY HISTORY :
No family history of breast , colon or gynecological malignancies .
No family of history of cardiac disease , hypertension , and diabetes mellitus .
HOSPITALIZATION COURSE :
On July 27 , 2006 , Ms. Straight underwent pelviscopy that was converted to a laparotomy with right salpingo-oophorectomy , lysis of adhesions , right ileal resection with primary reanastomosis and appendectomy .
Please refer to operative report dictation for full details of the operative course .
Briefly , there is noted to be dense adhesions involving the ileum , the appendix , cecum , pelvic cystic mass and the right ovary .
In the course of lysis of adhesions a small enterotomy in ileum was noted .
General surgical consultation was obtained from Dr. Obe who performed lysis of ileal adhesions with another small enterotomy secondary to dense adhesions .
An approximately 3-4 cm segment of the ileum was resected with a primary end to end reanastomosis .
The estimated blood loss was 200 ml .
The final surgical pathology showed a right hemorrhagic cyst of undetermined origin with extensive adhesions , peri-appendiceal adhesions and ileum with adhesions .
Postoperatively , Ms. Straight was maintained with an NG tube and bowel rest until postoperative day #5 when she passed flatus .
Of note , on postoperative day #3 and #4 , she spiked isolated temperatures to 101 .
Evaluation was unrevealing in terms of focal source of her fever .
The urine and blood cultures were negative .
Chest x-ray was negative .
After postoperative day #4 , she experienced no further episodes of fever .
Following her NG tube discontinuation on postoperative day #5 , she experienced three to four episodes of bilious emesis .
On examination , her abdomen was nondistended and she had normal bowel sounds .
A KUB confirmed no evidence of an ileus or obstruction .
She was managed conservatively and kept npo for one night and then her diet was advanced slowly .
By the evening of postoperative day #7 , she was tolerating full house diet and had two spontaneous bowel movements .
It was unclear her etiology of her emesis following NG tube removal although possibly secondary to a subclinical ileus .
It is also a possibility that she had gastroenteritis from her relative who had presented recently to the ED with similar course of low grade fevers , emesis that resolved in short course .
At time of discharge ( postoperative day #8 08/04/06 ) , she was tolerating a house diet .
She was voiding ambulating and had remained afebrile for over 72 hours .
She was deemed to appropriate for discharge home with followup with Dr. Eak in five weeks .
DISCHARGE CONDITION :
Stable .
DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS :
Ms. Straight is consulted to followup with Dr. Eak in approximately five weeks for her postoperative evaluation .
She was consulted to contact him in the event of fever , wound , complications , worsening nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain , shortness of breath or any other health concerns .
She is asked to refrain from lifting heavy weights or strain for six weeks and nothing in vagina for six weeks and to avoid driving while taking narcotic pain medications .
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS :
1. Oxycodone 5 mg p.o. q.4 h. p.r.n. pain .
2. Motrin 600 mg p.o. q.6 h. p.r.n. pain .
3. Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. p.r.n. constipation
4. Slow FE 320 mg p.o. b.i.d.
