305265793_d
FIH
2833679
23424/1931
653207
5/30/1994 12:00:00 AM
(1) STAGE IIIC OVARIAN CARCINOMA .
Unsigned
DIS
Report Status :
Unsigned
ADMISSION DATE :
05/30/94
DISCHARGE DATE :
06/23/94
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS :
(1) stage IIIC ovarian carcinoma .
SECONDARY DIAGNOSES :
(1) right lower lobe pneumonia .
(2) failure to thrive ;
(3) obstructive uropathy .
IDENTIFYING DATA AND CHIEF COMPLAINT :
Mrs. Saujule T. Neathe is a 73 year old Gravida 6 Para 4 abortions 2 with a background history of stage IIIC papillary serous adenocarcinoma of the ovary who presents on 5/30/94 for failure to thrive , right lower lobe pneumonia and obstructive uropathy .
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient was diagnosed with ovarian carcinoma in the summer of 1992 when she presented with abdominal distention .
At that time she was taken to the operating room and an ileostomy and colectomy performed .
The admission was complicated by the development of a right calf deep venous thrombosis on postoperative day four .
The patient was referred then to the Fairm of Ijordcompmac Hospital where she underwent thrombectomy .
One month later the patient was readmitted to Fairm of Ijordcompmac Hospital for definitive debulking including total abdominal hysterectomy , bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy , omentectomy , splenectomy and ileostomy take-down by Dr. Slaineaee Chabechird .
Thereafter she underwent line 1 chemotherapy with cis platinum , VP16 which she received six cycles and which was completed in March of 1993 .
This course of chemotherapy was complicated only by persistent diarrhea and some nausea and vomiting .
On 4/28/94 the patient developed a left femoral deep venous thrombosis requiring admission for anticoagulation .
An abdominopelvic computerized tomography scan during that admission showed recurrent disease in the pelvis with bilateral hydronephrosis .
Bilateral ureteric stents were placed prior to discharge .
Two days following discharge , however , the patient was admitted to Sephsandpot Center because of a decreased urinary output and persistent nausea and vomiting and anorexia .
She was maintained on intravenous fluids and received a transfusion of Prilosec which helped her urinary obstruction .
On this regimen she showed good improvement and was discharge home .
She was then seen on 5/30/94 at Fairm of Ijordcompmac Hospital for a routine chemotherapy but complained of decreased urinary output , nausea and vomiting and poor appetite and was therefore admitted .
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY :
Is as detailed above .
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY :
She is also status post appendectomy in 1944 and dilation and curettage in 1945 .
ALLERGIES :
She is allergic to shellfish .
DRUG ALLERGIES :
She has no known drug allergies .
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION :
Include Coumadin 2.5 mg. P.O. q.h.s. , omeprazole 20 mg. P.O. q.d. , M.V.I. one tablet P.O. q.d. , ferrous sulfate 325 mg. P.O. b.i.d. , Ativan .5 mg. P.O. q.h.s. p.r.n. for sleep and Tylenol No. 3 one to two tablets P.O. 4 hourly for pain .
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION :
( on admission ) showed the patient to be low-grade febrile with temperature of 99.6 , vital signs were stable with a blood pressure of 104/68 and a pulse of 92 , respiratory rate 16 .
She was noted to be a thin , cachectic woman in no apparent distress .
Head and neck examination remarkable only for extreme dry mucous membranes consistent with dehydration .
She had slightly icteric sclera , no adenopathy or thyromegaly .
Lungs examination was unremarkable with no focal pathology , breasts were within normal limits .
Heart :
regular rate and rhythm , no evidence of evidence , cardiac failure or endocarditis .
Abdomen :
showed well healed midline scar , non-distended , non-tender , bowel sounds were good , multiple small nodules were palpated subcutaneously in the upper abdomen which was non-tender , there was no costovertebral angle tenderness .
Pelvic and rectal examinations confirmed recurrence of tumor mass in the pelvis .
The patient was occult blood negative .
Extremities :
showed no evidence of acute deep venous thrombosis .
However , left leg had two plus pitting edema to the knee whereas the right leg had minimal edema .
LABORATORY DATA :
( on admission ) showed sodium 119 , potassium 9.8 ( the specimen was hemolyzed ) BUN and creatinine of 26 and 2.3 respectively , glucose 104 , ALT was 13 , total bilirubin .5 , alkaline phosphatase 62 , white blood cell count was 17.7 , hematocrit 26.7 , platelet count 223,000 , prothrombin time and partial thromboplastin time were 22.1 and 37 respectively .
I and R was 5.2. Urinalysis showed no white blood cells and few bacteria .
Chest x-ray from 5/18/94 was within normal limits .
IN SUMMARY :
The patient was assessed as a 72 year old woman with a background of stage IIIC ovarian carcinoma and documented local recurrence who presents for line 2 of cycle 1 chemotherapy with Adriamycin , Ifex and MESNA .
She also has a low-grade fever of unknown etiology , has a background history of deep venous thrombosis and is therefore currently on anticoagulation and she shows evidence of dehydration and failure to thrive .
It was decided at that time to hold off with the chemotherapy .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
The patient was therefore admitted to the GYN / Oncology Service under the care of Dr. Chabechird .
Laboratory tests were repeated in view of some of the above abnormalities and was remarkable for sodium 138 , potassium 4.0 , BUN and creatinine remained elevated at 36 and 2.8 respectively .
Urinalysis showed 10-20 white blood cells .
In view of the nausea and vomiting a nasogastric tube was placed to which the patient some relief .
Repeat chest x-ray showed evidence of right lower lobe pneumonia .
Renal ultrasound was performed which showed moderate right and severe left hydronephrosis , bilateral ureteric stents were visualized .
Dr. Ryna R. Jescdrig from the Urology Service was consulted in view of the above findings .
He requested a Lasix renal nuclear medicine scan which showed high-grade obstruction of both kidneys , left greater than right and minimal clearance with Lasix .
Neither kidney appeared to be completely obstructed .
In view of these results with the elevated white blood count , elevated creatinine , Dr. Jescdrig felt that the patient was inadequately stented .
As a result she was taken back to the operating room on 6/2/94 and under cystoscopy the old stents were removed and new larger stents were placed .
The patient was started on Ampicillin and Gentamicin for urinary tract infection which ultimately grew out Escherichia coli sensitive to the above antibiotics and for right lower lobe pneumonia on x-ray .
She was started on nebulizers around-the-clock and chest physical therapy .
Sputum culture was sent but failed to identify an infective organism .
On the above regimen the patient showed marked improvement .
Her urinary output remained good at 80-100 ccs. per hour .
However , her BUN and creatinine remained elevated .
On 6/5/94 they were 21 and 2.2 respectively .
Her Coumadin anticoagulation was adjusted to give a prothrombin time between 16 and 18 and an I and R of 2.5-3 .
On June 5 , 1994 it was decided that Mrs. Neathe was not stable enough with a line 2 cycle I chemotherapy with Ifex , Adriamycin and MESNA .
She was therefore well hydrated and was started on her chemotherapy .
In view of her kidney damage it was suggested to change her intravenous antibiotics from Ancef and Gentamicin to Ancef and ciprofloxacin which she tolerated well .
On 6/7/94 the patient was found to be mildly confused with persistent nausea and malaise .
Urinary electrolytes were noted to be within normal limits but her confusion persisted .
A Neuro-Oncology consult was sought which felt this was probably secondary to Ifex intoxication and her chemotherapy was stopped .
An electroencephalogram was requested and was negative .
No computerized tomography scan or magnetic resonance imaging study of the head was performed .
She continued to have persistent nausea and vomiting with large amount of drainage through the nasogastric tube between 1200 and 1500 ccs. for 24 hours .
Off her Ifex the patient &apos;s sensorium slowly cleared but the nausea and vomiting persisted .
For this reason a barium study was performed on 6/12/94 which showed a fixed stricture at the anastomosis of the descending colon with the rectum .
The mucosa appeared to be preserved .
In addition there was some narrowing in the mid portion of the descending colon .
The patient &apos;s white blood count which had been followed carefully began to drop precipitously on 6/11/94 and nadired down to 0.7 on 6/12/94 .
The patient was placed on neutropenic precautions , her intravenous antibiotics were continued .
Her sensorium had cleared .
Because of persistent nausea and vomiting on June 13 , 1994 a KUB and upright was requested which showed large amounts of retained barium confirming a rectosigmoid stricture approximately one centimeter in diameter .
The patient &apos;s white blood count persisted in the region of .5 to .6 with an ANC of 60 for the next two to three days .
In addition her platelets began to drop and reach a level on 6/13/94 .
She was maintained on intravenous antibiotics and GCSF therapy was started because of the profound neutropenia .
Despite the low platelets the patient showed no evidence of active bleeding and was not transfused .
A Gastrograffin upper gastrointestinal was attempted on 6/14/94 but was unsuccessful due to nausea and vomiting .
On conservative therapy the patient &apos;s nausea and vomiting has slowly subsided .
A percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy ( PEG ) tube was placed on June 18 , 1994 which has helped to decompress the stomach and prevent nausea and vomiting .
On 6/17/94 in view of a drop in hematocrit to 25 , the patient was transfused three units of packed red blood cells , white count however had increased to 8.5 and her platelets were on their way up , count was 74,000 .
And she was not given platelets in addition .
Throughout this period the patient &apos;s pain remained well controlled on patient controlled analgesia .
After much discussion with the family and Social Services it was decided to transfer the patient home once stable .
On August 21 , 1994 a PICC line was placed to facilitate home patient controlled analgesia ( PCA ) and on 6/23/94 this was found to be correctly positioned on chest x-ray .
On June 23 , 1994 the patient was found to be mobilizing relatively well with few episodes of nausea and vomiting .
The PEG tube was found to be draining well .
She was discharged home in a stable condition into the care of her family .
In addition she will be followed by Sephsandpot Center and Dwardsc Center who will arrange for home PCA ( patient controlled analgesia ) .
The patient &apos;s prognosis is guarded .
Her current code status is do not resuscitate ( DNR ) .
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE :
Include omeprazole 20 mg. P.O. q.d. , Timoptic eye drops .5 percent one drop OU b.i.d.
She will receive intravenous fluids D5 1/2 normal saline plus 20 of potassium at 110 ccs / hour at home and is going to be placed on a subcutaneous morphine pump as arranged by Sephsandpot Center .
The patient may have liquids as tolerated but no solid foods .
In addition she will be followed by Santea Gehawhi General Hospital for PEG tube care and flushing and to assess her pain control .
FOLLOW-UP :
The patient will follow up with Dr. Chabechird on an out-patient basis .
LONGKEND SAPSHUFF , M.D.
DICTATING FOR :
SLAINEAEE S. NIET CHABECHIRD , M.D.
TR :
suh / bmot
DD :
06/23/94
TD :
06/24/94
CC :
Dr. Slaineaee S. Chabechird , GYN / Oncology Service Dr. Longkend Sapshuff , GYN / Oncology Service Dr. Ilni Ni Wy Titchesluss , GYN / Oncology Service
