305265793_a
FIH
2833679
61793/5e2q
901693
09/02/1992 12:00:00 AM
STAGE IIIC OVARIAN CARCINOMA .
Unsigned
DIS
Report Status :
Unsigned
ADMISSION DATE :
09-02-92
DISCHARGE DATE :
9-14-92
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS :
stage IIIc ovarian carcinoma .
ASSOCIATED DIAGNOSIS :
hypertension , glaucoma , hiatus hernia , status post embolectomy for arterial embolus .
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient is a 71 year old white female with widely metastatic ovarian carcinoma , who is status post one cycle of chemotherapy with Cytoxan and cisplatin , who presents at this time for tumor debulking .
The patient initially presented with right upper quadrant pain , abdominal distention and narrowing of her stools .
A barium enema reflected a stenosis of the sigmoid .
A computerized tomography scan was done at the time , which revealed a complex process , involving the sigmoid colon .
The patient was admitted to the General Surgical Service in July of 1992 .
On July 27 , 1992 , she had an exploratory laparotomy , omentectomy , ileostomy and peritoneal fluid sampling .
The peritoneal fluid showed widely metastatic ovarian carcinoma .
One liter of ascitic fluid was removed from the patient during this procedure .
The patient did well postoperatively and was transferred to the Gynecology / Oncology Service for chemotherapy on August 3 , 1992 .
The patient received cycle number one of line one chemotherapy with Cytoxan and cisplatin and was discharged home on August 4 , 1992 .
On August 8 , the patient was readmitted with an ischemic right foot .
She underwent a right groin exploration and right profunda femoris artery and right superficial femoral artery embolectomy at that time .
She was hospitalized for a total of seven days on the General Surgical Service .
The patient was begun on Coumadin during that hospitalization , which was stopped on August 29 , 1992 .
The patient is admitted on September 2 , 1992 to the Gynecology / Oncology Service for abdominal hysterectomy , bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy , and tumor debulking .
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY :
significant for hypertension , for which the patient does not take any medications ; glaucoma , hiatus hernia , and arterial embolus .
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY :
significant for appendectomy , embolectomy as described above , and dilation and curettage x two in the past .
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION :
1. Timoptic , 0.5% , one drop OU b.i.d. ,
2. Coumadin , which the patient last took on August 29 , 1992 ,
3. Lorazepam q.day .
ALLERGIES :
The patient is allergic to shellfish and is allergic to iodine .
HABITS :
The patient has a 30 pack year smoking history and quit fifteen years ago .
The patient has a history of occasional alcohol use .
SOCIAL HISTORY :
The patient is married .
She has four children .
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION :
On physical examination , she is an elderly female in no acute distress .
Her vital signs included a temperature of 96.3 , heart rate of 96 , blood pressure of 140/100 and respirations of 20 .
The head , eyes , ears , nose , throat examination reveals alopecia consistent with her chemotherapy .
The extra ocular movements are intact and the pupils were equal , round , reactive to light and accommodation , the oropharynx shows a white plaque on the right tonsil .
There was no erythema noted .
The neck was supple without lymphadenopathy .
The back has no spinal or costovertebral angle tenderness .
The lungs were clear to auscultation and percussion bilaterally .
Cardiovascular exam :
regular rate and rhythm .
The breast examination reveals no masses or discharge .
The abdomen was soft , nontender , nondistended , positive bowel sounds .
The ileostomy is functioning and pink .
The patient &apos;s prior incision is well healed .
The right groin has a healing incision from the patient &apos;s prior embolectomy .
There is no cervical , inguinal , or axillary lymphadenopathy noted .
Extremities :
nontender , without any clubbing , cyanosis or edema .
There is a healing left lower extremity incision .
The feet are cool bilaterally and the feet are without palpable pulses bilaterally .
LABORATORY DATA :
significant for a sodium of 128 , potassium of 4.4 , chloride of 103 , bicarbonate 15.3 , BUN and creatinine 52 and 2.2 .
The patient had a white blood count of 13.6 , hematocrit of 39.0 , platelet count of 286,000 , prothrombin time was 9.0 seconds , and the partial thromboplastin time was 22.7 seconds , albumen 3.6 , calcium 9.7 , phosphorus 4.1 , and magnesium 1.6 .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
The patient was admitted to the Gynecology / Oncology Service .
She was noted to be hyponatremic and dehydrated and she was hydrated overnight prior to surgery .
The patient underwent a thorough bowel preparation prior to surgery on September 3 , 1992 .
The patient was brought to the Operating Room on September 3 , where she underwent a complicated procedure involving an exploratory laparotomy , a total abdominal hysterectomy , a bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy , splenectomy , rectosigmoid resection , distal ileal resection , right colon resection with a primary end to end anastomosis for the rectosigmoid and a side to side function end to end anastomosis for the ileal right colon resection .
The patient also underwent a bilateral pelvic lymph node dissection , and placement of a gastrostomy tube .
The patient also had CUSA of the diaphragm and mesentery of the bowel .
The patient tolerated the procedure well .
Pathologic examination of the surgical specimens revealed serous papillary adenocarcinoma of the ovary grade III / IV with spread to the fallopian tubes , uterus and rectosigmoid .
Metastatic serous adenocarcinoma was noted at the ileal-cecal resection , in the perisplenic fat , in 1/1 right internal iliac lymph node , in 4/10 right pelvic lymph nodes , in 6/6 left distal lymph nodes , and in segments taken of the peritoneum .
The patient had a postoperative course which was complicated by several episodes of atrial fibrillation in the early postoperative period .
These episodes were without any symptomatology and resolved on their own .
Mrs. Neathe required multiple transfusions for a decreased hematocrit postoperatively .
The patient was also was noted to have electrolyte abnormalities during her early postoperative course , requiring electrolyte replacement .
The patient was started on parenteral nutrition on postoperative day number one .
Her postoperative ileus resolved and she was begun on sips of clear liquids on postoperative day number six .
The patient otherwise did very well postoperatively .
On September 11 , 1992 , the patient received cycle number two , line number one of chemotherapy , with cisplatin 160 mg and cyclophosphamide 1,120 mg.
The patient tolerated her chemotherapy well , with only minimal complaints of nausea after the infusion .
On postoperative day number eight , the patient was noted to have a urinary tract infection , which grew Enterococcus .
She was initially placed on Bactrim pending identification of the organism , and switched to Ampicillin once the Enterococci had been identified .
The patient was discharged home in stable condition on September 14 , 1992 .
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS :
Stage III-c ovarian carcinoma .
COMPLICATIONS :
The patient experienced no intraoperative or postoperative complications during this hospitalization .
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE :
1. Coumadin 2.5 mg PO q.day ,
2. Amoxicillin 500 mg PO q.i.d. ,
3. Timoptic 0.5% , one drop OU b.i.d. ,
4. Ativan 1 mg PO q4h prn nausea and vomiting ,
5. Compazine 10 mg PO or 25 mg PR q6h prn nausea and vomiting ,
6. Benadryl 20-50 mg PO q6h with Compazine prn nausea .
CONDITION ON DISCHARGE :
Good .
DISPOSITION / PLAN ON DISCHARGE :
The patient was discharged home in stable condition .
She will have Santea Gehawhi General Hospital assistance from the Gableslandbaltma .
The Santea Gehawhi General Hospital will draw prothrombin times to be called into the Fairm of Ijordcompmac Hospital Anticoagulation Clinic .
Pre-chemotherapy laboratory studies will be drawn two days prior to the next admission for chemotherapy , which will be in approximately three to four weeks .
The visiting nurses will also perform wound checks and gastrostomy tube site checks .
Diet :
The patient is instructed to eat six small meals per day .
The patient is instructed to telephone Dr. Chabechird &apos;s office to arrange follow up visits .
RAHZACK INNELL , M.D.
DICTATING FOR :
SLAINEAEE S. CHABECHIRD , M.D.
TR :
gl / bmot
DD :
9-15-92
TD :
09/18/92
CC :
3 copies to Dr. Kayshe Asilv 16 resident teaching file
