305265793_c
FIH
2833679
88326/x91o
688470
10/20/1992 12:00:00 AM
Discharge Summary
Unsigned
DIS
Report Status :
Unsigned
ADMISSION DATE :
10/20/92
DISCHARGE DATE :
11/6/92
CHIEF COMPLAINT :
Recurrent cervical cancer with stenosis of mid sigmoid colon , secondary to metastatic disease .
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
This 71 year old female with stenotic section of mid sigmoid colon , shown on barium enema , also has diverticular disease .
The patient complains of intermittent constipation , denies painful or bloody stool .
The patient had had a recent history of mild ascites , with right adnexal fullness suspicious for ovarian cancer .
On ultrasound , perirectal and peri-sigmoid , the patient is noted to have heterogeneous abnormal appearance .
Recently , the patient has experienced abdominal distention , bloating , constipation , and thin stools .
No fevers or chills .
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY :
Notable for hypertension , glaucoma , hiatus hernia .
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY :
An appendectomy , dilation and curettage times two .
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION :
Zantac 150 mg. b.i.d. , Metamucil , Tylenol PRN , Timoptic .5 drops b.i.d.
SOCIAL HISTORY :
Stopped smoking 15 years ago .
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS :
No shortness of breath , no chest pain .
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION :
A white female in no acute distress .
The head , eyes , ears , nose , throat exam :
sclera nonicteric , mouth and pharynx benign .
The neck was supple , no bruits .
The chest was clear to auscultation bilaterally .
Heart :
regular rate and rhythm , without murmur , rub or gallops .
Abdomen :
soft , nontender , positive bowel sounds .
Appendectomy scar .
Rectal :
no masses noted , guaiac negative hard stool .
The neurological examination :
alert and oriented times three .
The electrocardiogram showed a normal sinus rhythm at 84 .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
The patient was admitted and brought to the operating room on 10/28/92 .
On operation , widely metastatic ovarian cancer was noted .
The patient underwent an omentectomy and an ileostomy with exploratory laparotomy .
The patient lost 250 cc. of blood and greater than one liter of ascites at the time of operation .
Again widely metastatic ovarian cancer with cake like omentum , spleen encased , ileocecal region and sigmoid colon was noticed at the time of operation .
The patient tolerated the procedure well , and was taken to the recovery room in good condition .
On postoperative day # 1 the patient complained of abdominal discomfort .
The ileostomy was pink and intact .
Because of low urine output and an episode of tachycardia , the patient was given a 250 cc. bolus of fluid with good results .
On 10/29 , GYN Oncology consult was carried out , who agreed to give her first round of chemotherapy while in the hospital .
The patient continued to run a low grade temperature which was attributed to atelectasis .
Her abdomen remained benign and her stoma was pink .
The urine output was stable and BUN and creatinine were 12/1 respectively .
By postoperative day # 2 , it was noted that the patient was reaccummulating ascitic fluid in her belly .
The nasogastric tube continued to have some output and it was left in .
By postoperative day # 3 , the patient was feeling better .
At this time her Foley catheter was removed .
Her stoma remained pink and in good condition .
There was stool and flatus noted in the ileostomy bag .
By postoperative day # 5 , the patient &apos;s nasogastric tube was removed and the patient was advanced to a clear liquid diet .
On 11/3/92 , the patient was transferred to the GYN Oncology Service , where over the next two days she was advanced to a regular diet , and was tolerating it well without nausea .
On 11/4/92 , the patient began her chemotherapy regimen of Cyclophosphamide and Cisplatinum .
She tolerated this 36 hour course of chemotherapy without difficulty and the patient was discharged from the hospital on 11/5/92 in good condition .
At this time she was afebrile and tolerating a good diet .
Her ileostomy was pink and functioning .
The patient was comfortable with her ileostomy care , after having seen the ileostomy care nurse .
CONDITION ON DISCHARGE :
Good .
DOCTORS DISCHARGE ORDERS :
She will follow up with Dr. Wood , her surgeon .
She will also follow up with Dr. Chabechird , her GYN Oncologist .
She was given prescriptions for Percocet , Ativan , Compazine , and Benadryl .
She was instructed to return to her preoperative medications .
BRENDNIUNGAND ASILBEKOTE , M.D.
DICTATING FOR :
ERYJA WOOD , M.D.
TR :
ga / bmot
DD :
11/6/92
TD :
11/09/92
CC :
Dr. Slaineaee Chabechird
