333084519
TGCHO
5632723
95275/3023
01/18/1994 12:00:00 AM
CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE AND CAROTID STENOSIS .
Unsigned
DIS
Report Status :
Unsigned
ADMISSION DATE :
01/18/94
DISCHARGE DATE :
02/02/94
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS :
Coronary artery disease and carotid stenosis .
ASSOCIATED DIAGNOSES :
( 1 ) hypertension .
( 2 ) diabetes mellitus .
PRINCIPAL PROCEDURE :
1/25/94 :
Urgent right carotid endarterectomy and coronary artery bypass graft .
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient is a 76 year old white female who was transferred from Oneoremadi Ryviewmawpa Greecounbci with severe coronary artery disease and presented for coronary artery bypass grafting .
The patient overall had been in her usual state of good health until three to four months prior when she developed progressively worsening chest pain exacerbated bystress .
In retrospect she has had several years of rare episodes of chest pain attributed to indigestion .
On 01/14/94 she underwent a Persantine-thallium test at Lichampm Kane Ancester Medical Center which showed anterolateralischemia and she also developed chest pain during her study .
She was admitted for cardiac catheterization which on transfer today showed severe left main disease with occluded right coronary artery and 95 percent stenosis of the circumflex with severe proximal left anterior descending .
She was transferred to TGCHO for surgical evaluation and was stable throughout except for some chest pain during her cardiac catheterization relieved with morphine and intravenous nitroglycerin .
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY :
Is above above , as well as ( 2 ) non-insulin diabetes mellitus which she is controlled on oral hypoglycemics , and ( 3 ) hypertension .
ALLERGIES :
None .
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION :
Tenormin 25 mg b.i.d. , Vasotec 10 mg q.d. , Diabinase 250 mg b.i.d. , nitroglycerin paste to chest wall , enteric coated aspirin one tablet PO q.d. , heparin intravenously , Dyazide 1 tablet PO q.d.
SOCIAL HISTORY :
No alcohol use and quit tobacco greater than 25 years ago with a 10-pack year smoking history .
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION :
The vital signs were stable .
She was a pleasant obese white female in no acute distress .
HEENT examination was within normal limits ; neck was without adenopathy , lungs were clear to auscultation and percussion ; heart regular rate and rhythm with distant heart sounds .
Abdomen was benign .
Extremities :
without deformities or varicosities .
Vascular showed 2 plus pulses except for her dorsalis pedis and posterior tibial pulses which were one plus .
She had a left carotid bruit .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
Given the patient &apos;s severe three vessel coronary artery disease a Cardiac Surgery consult was obtained for possible coronary artery bypass grafting .
She was kept on intravenous heparin , nitroglycerin and beta blockade .
Regarding her carotid bruit a carotid non-invasive study was obtained which showed severe right internal carotid artery stenosis and moderate left internal carotid artery stenosis .
In conjunction with the cardiac surgeons Dr. Ausguall from the Vascular Surgery Service was consulted for carotid endarterectomy on the right .
In anticipation of her endarterectomy she underwent an MRA angiogram on 01/22/94 .
Results of the angiogram showed that she right internal carotid artery stenosis with some hemodynamic effect in the distal LCA lumen diameter .
Due to this result an urgent carotid endarterectomy along with her coronary artery bypass graft was performed on 1/25/94 .
There were no complications and postoperatively she was transferred to the Surgical Intensive Care Unit in stable condition .
She remained neurologically intact and did well from the Vascular Surgery stand point .
Her Intensive Care Unit stay was only notable for an increase in chest tube output which subsequently decreased and was removed prior to her transfer to the floor .
She had some ectopy , specifically frequent ectopic activity after her surgery for which a Cardiac Arrhythmia Service consult was obtained and she was put on a Holter monitor and echocardiogram was obtained .
She remained hemodynamically stable and wires were kept intact beyond postoperative day four since she had some evidence of heart block .
Her beta blocker was held and she continued to be in sinus rhythm versus atrial fibrillation with frequent premature ventricular contractions .
Echocardiogram revealed her left ventricle to be within normal limits and otherwise her study was negative .
Holter monitor results were pending at the time of discharge .
Wires were subsequently discontinued and her digoxin and beta blocker were discontinued .
Otherwise her hospital course was uneventful .
She tolerated a regular diet , wounds remained clean , dry and intact and she was transferred to Villtionnca Hospital on 2/2/94 .
CONDITION ON DISCHARGE :
Stable and afebrile .
INSTRUCTIONS :
Were to follow up with Dr. Shondmagshao Ajesc , Dr. Wilftam Ausguall and Dr. Kote as instructed .
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE :
Dyazide one tablet PO q.d. , potassium chloride 20 mEq. PO b.i.d. , Isordil 10 mg PO t.i.d. , iron 325 mg PO t.i.d. , folate 1 mgq q.d. and Diabinase 250 mg PO q.d.
TVI MAN , M.D.
DICTATING FOR :
CHITLLIK KOTE , M.D.
TR :
dyt / bmot
DD :
01/31/94
TD :
02/01/94
CC :
Drs. Wilftam Ausguall , Dr. Chitllik Kote , Dr. Shondmagshao Ajesc , Dr. Tvi Man STAT DISCHARGE SUMMARY ( 2-2-94 )
