355791626
HLGMC
4810383
86837/sz34
4/4/1992 12:00:00 AM
CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE .
Unsigned
DIS
Report Status :
Unsigned
ADMISSION DATE :
4-4-92
DISCHARGE DATE :
04-11-92
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS :
congestive heart failure .
ASSOCIATED DIAGNOSIS :
1. schizotypal personality disorder ,
2. diabetes mellitus ,
3. chronic renal insufficiency .
ADVERSE DRUG REACTIONS :
none .
CLINICAL INFECTIONS :
none .
SPECIAL PROCEDURES AND OPERATIONS :
none .
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE :
1. Lasix 60 mg intravenously b.i.d. ,
2. Enalapril 5mg PO q.day ,
3. Heparin 5000 units subcutaneously b.i.d. ,
4. Regular insulin 0-10 units subcutaneously q a.m. , as indicated by fasting blood sugar ,
5. Albuterol nebulizer 0.3 cc in 2.5 cc normal saline q4h prn .
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient is a 76 year old female with a history of schizotypal personality disorder , congestive heart failure , peripheral vascular disease , diabetes mellitus , chronic renal insufficiency , and a documented ejection fraction of 18% , who presented to the Heaonboburg Linpack Grant Medical Center Emergency Ward with shortness of breath .
The patient was a resident at Tawn List Medical Center in Rangefield War , Kentucky , where she was in her usual state of health until approximately seven days prior to admission , when she was noted to have a non productive cough .
Over the ensuing week , she developed increased weakness , decreased appetite , and began refusing all of her medications .
She became progressively short of breath over this time , and was eventually brought to the Heaonboburg Linpack Grant Medical Center Emergency Ward for this reason .
No other history is available .
The patient denies any fevers , chest pain , shortness of breath , cough , and is generally uncooperative with the history .
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY :
1. congestive heart failure .
The patient was admitted in December of 1992 , at that time with anasarca and congestive heart failure , responsive to diuretics and ACE inhibitors .
She has a diabetic cardiomyopathy with an ejection fraction of 18% , likely due to alcohol abuse in the past ,
2. non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus .
The patient is generally diet-controlled and does not require any additional insulin ,
3. nephrotic syndrome , believed secondary to diabetes mellitus .
Last 24 hour urine measured 3.5 grams of protein .
4. chronic renal insufficiency , likely secondary to her diabetes nephrotic syndrome .
Baseline creatinine reported at 3.5 , although on this hospitalization , her baseline is better .
5. peripheral vascular disease .
The patient is status post several toe amputations for footulcers ,
6. schizotypal personality disorder .
The patient has a history of paranoid delusions .
She has been seen by Psychiatry on many occasions , and anti-psychotic medications have not been found to work for her .
The patient is not competent to make her medical decisions and this is done by her guardian , Mr. Gross .
She is intermittently combative or difficult to deal with .
She frequently refuses her medications based on her paranoia .
Of note , she is not deemed competent to refuse medications and these issues should be discussed with her guardian if her refusal of treatment interferes with her overall health ,
7. history of diverticulitis , inactive .
SOCIAL HISTORY :
The patient was homeless before she lived in Eastny Medical Center .
Her family is not involved in her care .
Her guardian is Mr. Inemacistin Gross , who can be reached at work at 377-818-6787 .
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION :
1. Lasix 80 mg PO q.day ,
2. Colace 100 mg PO t.i.d. ,
3. Ranitidine 150 mg PO qhs ,
4. Robitussin prn .
ALLERGIES :
The patient has a questionable allergy to penicillin , although the patient denies allergies .
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION :
On physical examination , an uncooperative white female sitting up in bed in no acute distress .
Her vital signs included a blood pressure of 166/108 , heart rate 100 , temperature refused , respirations 24 , oxygen saturation on room air 92% , 99% on two liters .
Skin :
cool and dry .
The head , eyes , ears , nose , throat examination was benign .
Her neck was supple with full range of motion .
No lymphadenopathy or thyromegaly .
Her lungs had inspiratory and expiratory wheezes throughout with rales heard halfway up bilaterally .
There are scattered rhonchi .
The breath sounds are decreased at the bases .
The heart exam revealed a normal Sl and S2 , with a soft S3 .
The abdomen was soft , nontender , nondistended , normal active bowel sounds , slightly obese .
Back :
no costovertebral angle tenderness .
There is some sacral pitting edema .
The rectal examination was refused .
Extremities :
2-3+ peripheral edema to the hips .
There is a right toe ulcer without erythema , which could not be better visualized secondary to patient refusal .
LABORATORY DATA :
significant for a sodium of 140 , potassium 5.7 , chloride 108 , bicarbonate 21.2 , BUN and creatinine 66 and 2.9 , glucose 198 , calcium 8.4 , phosphate 4.0 , magnesium 1.7 , total bilirubin 1.0 , alkaline phosphatase 153 , SGOT 21 , LDH 236 , amylase 32 , urate 7.2 , albumen 2.4 , hematocrit 39.9 , white blood count 10.7 , platelet count 197,000 , mean corpuscular volume 79 , coagulation studies within normal limits .
Her chest X-ray showed cardiomegaly with bilateral pleural effusions and moderate interstitial / air space pattern consistent with congestive heart failure .
The electrocardiogram showed sinus tachycardia at 100 beats per minute with left bundle branch block .
There is no acute change from January , 1992 .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
The patient was admitted to the Medical Service for management of her congestive heart failure .
Due to her refusal of oral medications , she was started on intravenous Lasix twice a day .
She diuresed well to this , losing approximately one liter in fluid and one pound each day during her hospital course .
A repeat chest X-ray on April 9 showed markedly improved congestive heart failure with mild residual redistribution of the vasculature , and very small pleural effusions .
The remainder of the patient &apos;s medical issues were stable during this hospitalization .
She intermittently refused medications due to her paranoia and frequently refused to speak with medical staff .
She was cooperative with the nurses when receiving her Lasix , and took her Enalapril with much encouragement on several occasions .
She did allow daily weights and chest X-rays on occasion .
She was also compliant with her daily Accu checks for blood glucose monitoring .
The patient generally found that a patient , quiet approach with the patient was most successful .
Her diabetes mellitus was well controlled with very rare need for additional insulin .
Her blood glucose ranged between 100 and 200 .
Her renal function was stable with a BUN and creatinine of 62/2.7 at the time of discharge .
Her hyperkalemia , which was noted on admission , resolved with potassium levels of approximately four .
DISPOSITION / PLAN ON DISCHARGE :
The patient was discharged in stable condition to Den Health .
She will continue to receive intravenous medications and close monitoring of her multiple medical problems there .
CENTESHA SKIFOLM , M.D.
TR :
xu / bmot
DD :
04-11-92
TD :
04/11/92
CC :
Dr. Ca Shuff STAT
