369351488
FIH
0042688
36465/2f39
277581
12/13/1992 12:00:00 AM
OSTEOARTHRITIS OF THE RIGHT HIP .
Unsigned
DIS
Report Status :
Unsigned
ADMISSION DATE :
12/13/92
DISCHARGE DATE :
12/21/92
ATTENDING :
Lupevickette L. Ca , M.D.
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS :
osteoarthritis of the right hip .
ASSOCIATED DIAGNOSIS :
asthma ; bladder stones with recurrent urinary tract infection ; bilateral herniorraphys , one in 1941 at age 6 ; 1973-herniorraphy in Grand Blvd , Sterdo by Dr. A Narcshuff ; 1983-herniorraphy by Dr. A Narcshuff ; cataract , 1989 , by Conrellie Koterudes , Iewrethomptrus Aflandplains Medical Center , Tavo , in the right eye ; open reduction , internal fixation of right acetabular fracture by Brendniungand Asilbekote , M.D. in Guebile , AK 8/24/90 ; pinning of right shoulder , Veterans Day , by Brendniungand Asilbekote , M.D. ; removal of gallstones times 2 by Dr. Tikkerth in 1991 at the Thaand Shelbryri Rehabilitation in Huntchsville ; motor vehicle accident in 1990 , in which he sustained a fractured dislocation of the right hip and acetabulum and right shoulder and rib fractures .
CHIEF COMPLAINT :
Severe right hip pain .
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
Mr. Head is a 57 year old male , who was admitted for right total hip replacement .
He has no antecedent history of hip disease in infancy , childhood , or adolescence .
In 1990 , Mr. Head was involved in an motor vehicle accident in which he sustained a fractured dislocation of his right hip , a fracture of his right shoulder and some fractured ribs .
On that same day , 11/11/90 , he underwent open reduction , internal fixation of a right acetabular fracture performed by Dr. Brendniungand Asilbekote .
He also underwent pinning of his right shoulder fracture at that time .
His right shoulder healed uneventfully .
He initially did well after his open reduction , internal fixation of the acetabular fracture , however , in April , 1992 , he began having increasing difficulty with hip pain and stiffness .
CURRENT STATUS :
The pain is moderate and he has pain on a daily basis .
Stiffness is severe , and limits him severely .
He takes Motrin 800 mg PO tid , or qid .
He can walk two blocks , and he limps severely .
He uses a left cane full time .
He can do shoe , sox and toenails , but it is difficult .
He can sit normally , except when his back pain bothers him , and then he can only sit for 15 minutes at a time .
The patients does stairs 2 on 1 with the left foot first , and he uses a banister .
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY :
Significant past medical history includes :
asthma-he has had the asthma since age 6 .
The patient was seen in preoperative consultation by Dr. Melvean Smitrekielt , on November 4 , 1992 .
Dr. Smitrekielt felt the patient was stable from a pulmonary standpoint , and recommended a short course of steroids immediately preoperatively in the perioperative period .
History of urinary stones , and repeat urinary tract infections :
The patient was seen by Dr. Nie Threatsjescdreps at the Fairm of Ijordcompmac Hospital in consult .
He was seen on November 10 , 1992 .
Dr. Threatsjescdreps did not feel the patient had an increased risk for repeat urinary tract infection .
She gave him a prescription for Terazosin , to help him void .
Herniorraphys bilaterally , performed in 1941 , 1973 , and 1983 .
He has not had reoccurrence since .
Injury motor vehicle accident in 1990 , with acetabular fracture , and right proximal shoulder fracture .
Veterans Day , treated by Brendniungand Asilbekote , in Delp Sto .
Patient has no significant limitation with his right upper extremity .
This should not interfere with his physical therapy .
Treatment of his acetabular fracture post traumatic arthritis will be with total hip replacement .
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION :
Aerobic Inhaler 2 puffs bid ; Proventil Inhaler 2 puffs 6-7 times per day on prn basis ; Motrin 800 mg PO tid , patient discontinued this prior to his admission ; Hydrin , patient takes this for voiding , which was prescribed by Dr. Nie Threatsjescdreps .
ALLERGIES :
The patient is allergic to tomatoes .
He can also not eat corn .
He can take Penicillin .
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION :
On general exam he is a well developed , well nourished male , in no acute distress .
Vital signs stable .
head , eyes , ears , nose , throat :
unremarkable , except for the cataract implant in his right eye .
Chest :
clear to auscultation .
Cardiac :
distant , but show a regular rate and rhythm with no murmur , rub or gallop .
abdomen was benign , with no masses , or organomegaly .
He has well healed bilateral inguinal hernia surgical incision scars .
Also a scar from bladder surgery , which is well healed .
ORTHOPEDIC EXAMINATION :
He has a severe right hip limp .
In his stance his right leg appears 1 1/2 cm short .
He has a strongly positive Trandelenberg on the right .
On recumbent measurement he is 1 cm short on the right when compared with the left .
Range of motion reveals 0 degrees PFC , and further flexion to 85 degrees .
He has 0 degrees of IRE and 20 degrees of ERE .
He has no abduction and no adduction .
Abduction strength is very weak .
His sensory exam is intact to light touch .
Pulses show a 2+ in the posterior tib and 1+ in the dorsalis pedis pulse bilaterally .
Skin over the right hip shows a well healed a posterior lateral surgical incision .
There were no blemishes .
LABORATORY DATA :
On routine screening he had a white blood count of 6.8 , hemoglobin of 14.6 , hematocrit 42.8 , platelet count 237,000 .
prothrombin time was 9.5 , partial thromboplastin time 28.5 .
urinalysis was clear yellow , specific gravity 1.0 to pH 5.0 , with all other perimeter negative .
SGOT 14 , BUN and creatinine 17/1.1 .
sodium 141 , potassium 4.2 .
electrocardiogram obtained 9/8 , shows a normal sinus rhythm with a rate of 72 .
Review by Dr. Lako Head , who felt no further cardiac evaluation was required .
Patient had pulmonary function tests under the car of Dr. Melvean Smitrekielt .
He had an FEV1 of 2.06 , which did not improved with bronchodilators .
A vital capacity of 4.3 liters , which was 80% of the predicted value .
ABG showed a PO2 of 93 , PCO2 of 35 , and pH of 7.40 .
PREOPERATIVE CONSULTATIONS :
Mr. Head was seen by Dr. Melvean Smitrekielt , from Pulmonary in regards to his pulmonary function .
Dr. Smitrekielt felt the patient was able to undergo an anesthetic , and total hip replacement , and recommended Solu-Medrol 20 mg to be given intravenously immediately preoperatively , and q6h for 4 doses postoperatively .
Patient was also seen by Dr. Nie Threatsjescdreps in regards to his prior urinary tract infections .
Dr. Threatsjescdreps felt that the patient was not at increase for urinary tract infection , and recommended proceeding with surgery .
PRINCIPAL PROCEDURE :
Right hibrid total hip replacement , with removal of three screws from posterior lip of acetabulum , performed on 12/14/92 .
He had a posterior lateral approach , and a HG 2 58 mm acetabular component with a 28 mm liner end no holes .
Cementing of a central line number 4 central femoral component with a 28 mm head and medium neck .
Placement of a 16 mm Herbert bone screw into the greater trochanter .
SECONDARY PROCEDURES :
12/20/92 - Mr. Head underwent bilateral lower extremity venous ultrasounds which showed no evidence for deep venous thrombosis bilaterally .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
The patient was admitted to the hospital preoperative exam .
His total estimated blood loss for the operation was 3,070 cc , of which 1,970 cc was weighed on the sponges , 700 cc was in the suction , and 400 cc was estimated from the fields .
For replacement he received 500 cc of autologous packed cells , 2,250 cc of albumen and 2400 cc of lactated ringer solutions .
In the recovery room his hemivac drained 350 cc over 4 hours .
His labs in the recovery room showed a white blood count of 9.9 , hematocrit 29.5 , and a platelet count of 183,000 .
His prothrombin time was 11.3 , and partial thromboplastin time of 31.4 .
electrocardiogram showed some intermittent premature ventricular contractions and ST wave changes .
He was transferred an additional unit of autologous packed cells in the recovery room and an additional unit of autologous blood was hung to be transfused on the floor .
Over the next 24 hours , his hemivac drain put out small amounts of serous sanguinous fluid , and was removed without difficulty .
He was transfused 1 additional unit of banked blood the evening of surgery .
He underwent serial hematocrit determinations throughout the rest of the hospital stay .
On postoperative day 1 , his hematocrit was 29.1 , the next day it was 26.5 .
On 12/19 , his hematocrit stabilized at 29.6 , and he received no additional transfusion .
For management of pain postoperatively , he was placed on the PCA Morphine pump .
This provided excellent relief of his incisional pain .
He was gradually weaned off the intravenous Morphine , and switched over to oral analgesics with good control of his pain .
Prior to discharge , he was switched over to Percocet , which provided excellent relief of his pain , and he was discharged with a prescription for Percocet .
Postoperatively , he was placed in balance suspension , and kept at bedrest for two days when he was then mobilized , and started gait training , using a walker , and then crutches .
Prior to discharge , he was independent in ambulation with crutches , as well as transfers .
With the history of electrocardiogram changes in the recovery room , the patient was seen in consult by Dr. Lako Head , of Cardiology .
Dr. Head found the at the electrocardiogram was consistent , but not diagnostic with mild ischemia .
The patient has had no prior history of coronary artery disease , and the absence of significant ST depressions , he found the findings of only mild concern .
Patient was placed on Nitropace 1/2 &quot; q6h .
He was placed on the cardiac monitor for 36 hours , and had CPK isoenzyme determinations .
The patient &apos;s electrocardiogram returned to normal , he had no evidence or episodes , of ischemia or chest pain , in the perioperative , his CPK and isoenzymes showed no evidence of myocardial infarction .
Nitropace was discontinued on 12/17/92 , and the patient was cleared by Dr. Head , and no further Cardiology followup was required .
Mr. Head &apos;s wound was checked daily , and found to be healing well without evidence for infection .
On postoperative day number 10 , 2 days after the patient was discharged , the patient returned to the hospital for staple removal .
The staples were removed , and steri strips were applied .
The wound was found healing by primary intention , without evidence for infection .
For prophylaxis against infection Mr. Head was placed on Ancef perioperatively .
This was continued for 72 hours postoperatively .
For prophylaxis against deep venous thrombosis , he was placed on Coumadin perioperatively .
His daily dosage was adjusted according to his prothrombin time and partial thromboplastin time .
On postoperative day number 2 his prothrombin time was 13.3 , and partial thromboplastin time was 39.0 , and he received 5 mg of Coumadin .
On postoperative day 3 , his prothrombin time was 14.9 , and his partial thromboplastin time was 40.6 , and he received 4 mg of Coumadin .
On 12/20/92 , he underwent bilateral venous ultrasound of the lower extremities .
This was negative for deep venous thrombosis bilaterally .
His Coumadin was discontinued .
Mr. Head required intermittent straight cath for the first 48 hours postoperatively .
Urine was sent for urinalysis , and culture and sensitivity , with this straight catheterization , and the urine culture and the urinalysis were negative .
He was continued on intravenous Ancef for a total of 72 hours postoperatively , to cover him for the intermittent catheterizations .
About 36 hours postoperatively , the patient was able to void spontaneously , and there no further intermittent catheterizations were required .
Mr. Head continued to progress well with his physical therapy .
Prior to discharge he was ambulating independently with crutches , and on stairs , and was independent with transfers .
He was discharged to home on postoperative day number 7 , 12/21/92 .
COMPLICATIONS :
None .
PLANS AND INSTRUCTIONS :
He is discharged to home with self care on 12/21/92 , he is to continue using 2 crutches full time for the next three months and will be seen by Dr. Ca in followup after that time .
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE :
Percocet for pain , and he was dispensed 30 tablets .
CONDITION ON DISCHARGE :
Stable .
DARUIRV RHALTBOALS , M.D.
DICTATING FOR :
LUPEVICKETTE CA , M.D.
TR :
be / bmot
DD :
01/05/93
TD :
01/07/93
CC :
Dr. Ca Dr. Rhaltboals
