430403085 SC
61295919
644234
7/8/1995 12:00:00 AM
Discharge Summary
Signed
DIS
Admission Date :
07/08/1995
Report Status :
Signed
Discharge Date :
07/19/1995
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS :
Orthostatic hypotension .
OTHER PROBLEMS :
Hyponatremia .
Hypokalemia .
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient is a 66 year old white female without a significant past medical history who presented in the Middso Memorial Hospital Emergency Room following a nine day history of dizziness on standing without loss of consciousness .
During the week prior to admission , the patient complained of severe constipation , dry mouth , possible urinary retention along with some nausea and vomiting .
She felt that she was profoundly cold at the time .
In the emergency room , the patient was hypotensive with an initial blood pressure of 92/70 and a pulse of 96 lying flat that became 70/50 with a pulse of 104 when standing .
The patient was aggressively hydrated with a total of 9 liters of normal saline over a 7 hour period with marginal increase in blood pressure .
Over the same period of time , the patient became increasingly hypoxic and developed worsening hypertension .
Stat chest x-ray showed pulmonary edema .
The patient was subsequently transferred to the MICU on Dopamine for further management .
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY :
Only noticeable for remote appendectomy and being gravida V , para V .
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION :
None .
ALLERGIES :
No known drug allergies .
SOCIAL HISTORY :
The patient has an 80-pack-year history of tobacco and is currently smoking 1-2 packs per day .
She also has a questionable alcohol history of up to one quart daily .
She is married and lives with her husband .
FAMILY HISTORY :
Notable for coronary artery disease in both parents without a history of cancer or autoimmune disease , diabetes , thyroid disease .
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION :
The patient was an agitated elderly white female .
Temperature 97.8 , blood pressure 112/58 on Dopamine , pulse 134 , respirations 28 , oxygen saturation 93% on 100% nonrebreather .
HEENT :
Showed pupils equal , round and reactive to light .
Extraocular muscles intact .
Oropharynx benign .
Eyebrows were notable for lateral thinning .
Neck was supple without lymphadenopathy .
Carotids were 2+ .
No palpable thyroid .
Lungs showed decreased breath sounds bilaterally .
Cardiac exam revealed S1 , S2 with an intermittent S4 without murmur or rubs .
Abdominal exam was benign .
Extremities showed mild clubbing , no cyanosis and no edema .
Neurologic exam :
The patient was alert , agitated and oriented to name , date and place moving all extremities .
Light touch was intact .
ADMISSION LABS :
Sodium 127 , potassium 2.6 , chloride 76 , bicarb 35 , BUN 13 , creatinine 0.9 , glucose 105 , serum osmolality 254 , hematocrit 43.5 , white count 10.0 with 68% polys , 20% lymphs and 10 monos .
Platelets 310 .
PT and PTT were normal .
LFT &apos;s were within normal limits .
Admission cortisol , aldosterone , B12 and folate and TSH were drawn .
Chest x-ray on transfer to the MICU showed pulmonary vascular redistribution without infiltrate , effusions or nodules as compared with an admission chest x-ray which was interpreted as clear .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
In the MICU , the patient initially required Dopamine for five days , at which point , she tolerated a wean without recurrent light headedness , dizziness or syncope .
Echocardiogram revealed preserved ejection fraction without regional wall motion abnormalities .
The patient had a Swan-Ganz catheter placed which showed a cardiac output of 8 with systemic vascular resistance of 700 .
Because the Swan-Ganz readings were felt to be explained by sepsis , the patient was treated empirically with Cefotaxime , Gentamicin and Flagyl .
All cultures were subsequently negative with the exception of an E coli UTI .
The infectious workup included a lumbar puncture which was negative for pleocytosis but showed an elevated glucose of 106 and an elevated protein of 76 .
The patient had an extensive workup for hypopituitarism .
Because Addisonian crisis could not be initially ruled out , the patient was placed on distressed dose Cortisone .
However , a random cortisol level drawn initially in the emergency room subsequently returned as normal .
The patient also responded appropriately to Cortrosyn stimulation test .
Also , TSH was normal on admission .
Thyroid function panel drawn while the patient was on Dopamine was subsequently abnormal .
However , repeat panel was drawn when the patient was stable and had been transferred to the floor and was pending at the time of discharge .
The patient was also evaluated by the neurology service for possible dysautonomia as the cause of her orthostatic hypotension with an inappropriate heart rate response to hypotension .
EMG showed no evidence of peripheral neuropathy .
Additional studies also included a head CT that showed a small Lacunar infarct in the right pons and a partial empty sella which was confirmed by head MRI .
Other studies sent during the workup included a negative serum and urine protein electrophoresis , negative serum and urine immunoglobulin electrophoresis .
LH and SSH levels were consistent with a post-menopausal state .
Galactin levels were within normal limits .
ANA was negative .
Ace level was negative .
Heavy metal screen was negative except for a slightly elevated cobalt level so a possibility of a perineoplastic syndrome was considered .
An anti-YO RI and WHO antibodies were sent and were pending at the time of discharge .
On hospital day eight , the patient had uneventfully weaned off Dopamine and was transferred to the floor .
At that time , the stress dose Hydrocortisone was weaned and the patient was switched to Prednisone without any evidence of recurrent hypotension .
Her initial hyponatremia and hypokalemia resolved with stable sodium and potassium levels prior to discharge .
In the studying of aggressive fluid resuscitation , it was felt that the patient had been sent into pulmonary edema .
The patient auto-diuresed spontaneously .
Subsequent to the diuresis , reticulonodular diffuse pattern became apparent on chest x-ray .
Because of the patient &apos;s significant smoking history , chest PT was performed to evaluate the possibility of lymphangitic carcinomatosis .
However , the chest CT showed relative sparing of the lower lobes with primary involvement in both upper lobes .
The patient following diuresis had no oxygen requirement whatsoever and had no respiratory complaints .
Prior to discharge , she was evaluated by the pulmonary service who felt that the differential diagnosis for her chest CT included eosinophilic granuloma , idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis , less likely sarcoidosis .
Because the patient had no respiratory symptoms , it was felt that her abnormal chest CT would be best evaluated as an out-patient .
A new baseline chest x-ray was obtained prior to discharge .
She will also require baseline pulmonary function tests as an out-patient .
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE :
Prednisone taper 40 mg p.o. q day times two days , 30 mg p.o. q day times two days , 20 mg p.o. q day times three days , 10 mg p.o. q day times three days , 5 mg p.o. q day times three days .
Multi-vitamin one p.o. q day .
CONDITION ON DISCHARGE :
Stable .
DISPOSITION :
The patient will be discharged to home .
She will follow-up with Jacrendonate Sella , M.D. on 8/6/95 .
She will need a pulmonary referral and pulmonary function tests as an out-patient .
At the time of discharge , studies that were pending included a repeat thyroid function panel , aldosterone levels and anti-WHO and anti-YO and RI antibodies .
Dictated By :
GI SELLA , M.D. AU33
Attending :
OGHAN R. ROURLF , M.D. RG9 reviewed on computer without chart SV763/1101
Batch :
4968
Index No. 7KOPPH598F
D :
07/20/95
T :
07/22/95
