448099088
GH
32371118
2/1/2002 12:00:00 AM
MULTIPLE MYELOMA , SHORTNESS OF BREATH
Signed
DIS
Admission Date :
02/01/2002
Report Status :
Signed
Discharge Date :
02/11/2002
The patient received care on Oncology A .
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES :
1. MULTIPLE MYELOMA .
2. PLASMACYTOMA .
PATIENT PROBLEM LIST :
1. Kappa lyte chain multiple myeloma .
2. Status post hemorrhoidectomy .
3. Status post sphincterectomy .
4. Urinary retention .
5. Bone marrow transplant in 2000 .
6. Appendectomy .
7. History of pulmonary embolism .
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
Mr. Chysfreierm is a 53-year-old man with Kappa lyte chain multiple myeloma admitted with pain , shortness of breath , fevers and weight loss .
He was diagnosed with multiple myeloma in 1999 .
He underwent radiation and VAD complicated by pulmonary embolus .
This was followed by bone marrow transplant in 2000 .
He relapsed and underwent IMIV-3 , Cytoxan and finally PS-341 , which brought his disease to excellent control during May to October , 2002 .
In November he began to experience rectal pain , was diagnosed with a prolapsed hemorrhoid .
He had a bout of appendicitis followed by surgery for his hemorrhoid in December .
Repeat surgery was required for another hemorrhoid .
The month of admission he had an anal fissure repaired and then began to have more significant problems with urinary retention requiring catheterization for control , although he had noticed some problems with urinary retention up to two months ago .
On admission he complained of right lateral thigh , buttock , &quot; nerve &quot; pain .
He complained of fevers , chills and night sweats and a 20 pound weight loss , dyspnea on exertion lasting less than five minutes .
His last bowel movement was one week prior to admission .
He has no chest pain , abdominal pain , nausea , vomiting or diarrhea .
ALLERGIES :
He has no known drug allergies .
SOCIAL HISTORY :
He is a former software engineer .
He is married and has two children .
FAMILY HISTORY :
Noncontributory .
His problem list is as per the problem list .
PERTINENT PHYSICAL FINDINGS ON ADMISSION :
VITAL SIGNS :
Blood pressure 153/92 , pulse 102 , respirations 20 , temperature 99 degrees Fahrenheit , satting 93 to 94% on room air .
GENERAL :
The patient was awake and alert , in no acute distress .
HEENT :
Pupils were equal , round , reactive to light .
His extraocular movements were intact .
His oropharynx was somewhat dry , but otherwise clear .
NECK :
He had no lymphadenopathy .
HEART :
His heart was regular rate and rhythm without gallops , however , II-III / VI systolic ejection murmur was heard .
LUNGS :
His lungs were bilaterally clear to auscultation .
ABDOMEN :
His abdomen was benign .
EXTREMITIES :
There was no edema of his extremities .
His strength was 5/5 throughout .
Sensation was intact grossly .
He had 2+ symmetric reflexes with down-going toes bilaterally .
NEUROLOGIC :
His cranial nerves were intact .
LABORATORY RESULTS ON ADMISSION :
Sodium 133 , potassium 3.7 , creatinine 0.6 with a BUN of 5 , glucose 151 .
Alkaline phosphatase was 392 .
White count was 7 .
Hematocrit was 24.6 .
His INR was 1.3 with a PTT of 101 .
Calcium was 8.4 , phosphate 2.8 , mag 1.8 .
UA showed 30 to 40 red blood cells but had a negative dip stick .
His chest X-ray showed elevation of the right hemidiaphragm with the colon of normal diameter , his new left rib fracture and soft tissue densities at the second rib and lateral sixth rib and then upper thoracic compression fracture .
There were no complications of his admission .
HOSPITAL COURSE BY PROBLEM :
Problem number 1 , multiple myeloma .
The patient was re-staged during his admission with a urine and serum electroimmunophoresis and a full skeletal survey .
He also received a four-day Decadron burst .
The patient had pain in the L3 distribution .
His MRI of the spine showed no clear reason for the pain and thus , a pelvic CT was obtained showing a large right pelvic mass that likely was causing his leg pain .
Radiation oncology was scheduled for next Tuesday to irradiate the mass .
Urinary retention .
Although there was a T5 compression fracture compressing the cord without signal change , there was no evidence that this lesion could be causing his urinary retention ; and it was felt that the pelvic mass more likely accounted for his urinary retention .
Fevers .
His blood and urine cultures were obtained and remained negative throughout admission .
His chest X-ray did not reveal source of his fevers .
The patient was placed on Levaquin .
Shortness of breath .
The patient had a V-Q scan on admission that was low probability for PE .
The patient had no evidence of acute pulmonary embolus and his shortness of breath resolved over the course of his admission .
The patient had a T5 compression fracture with cord deformity .
Neurosurgery was consulted .
No steroids were recommended .
A brace was ordered to stabilize the spine when the patient was up more than 10 minutes .
Surgical intervention per Dr. Jescneighagne was being evaluated and considered for the compression following his radiation therapy .
Posterior fossa mass .
This mass was found on a screening MRI of the head per neurosurgery .
Radiation oncology also plans radiation to that lesion while he is getting radiation for the pelvic mass .
The patient had no evidence of cerebellar dysfunction on discharge .
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS :
1. Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.
2. Zantac 150 mg p.o. b.i.d.
3. Senna tablets two tabs p.o. b.i.d.
4. MS Contin 30 mg p.o. b.i.d.
5. Neurontin 300 mg p.o. t.i.d.
6. Levofloxacin 500 mg p.o. q.d.
7. Decadron 40 mg x one day .
8. Lactulose 30 ml p.o. q.6h. p.r.n. constipation .
9. Flomax 0.4 mg p.o. q.d.
10. MSIR 5 to 10 mg q.4-6h. p.r.n. break-through pain .
The patient &apos;s discharge condition was satisfactory .
The patient &apos;s disposition was to home with nursing services for home safety and medication education .
The patient is to follow up on Tuesday on Ven Hospital on Tuesday , February 15 .
The patient is to follow up with Dr. Jescneighagne , neurosurgeon .
He will call for an appointment to immediately follow his radiation therapy .
Finally , he will follow up with his outpatient oncologist , Dr. Shuffzeln as directed .
Dictated By :
AVEJOH IRY WIERST , M.D. EH60
Attending :
TELSHEY SWATLLEEBTIK , M.D. QM04 BS287/919896
Batch :
82503
Index No.
D2ZP7I6 SFO
D :
02/11/02
T :
02/11/02
CC :
1. STA O. BODEJOVE , M.D.
3. NALEO JESCNEIGHAGNE , M.D.
4. VEN HOSPITAL
