449637451
FIH
4544961
54704/5mw8
881119
03/16/1992 12:00:00 AM
CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE .
Unsigned
DIS
Report Status :
Unsigned
ADMISSION DATE :
03-16-92
DISCHARGE DATE :
3-31-92
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS :
coronary artery disease .
ASSOCIATED DIAGNOSIS :
coronary atherosclerosis , myocardial infarction , insulin dependent diabetes mellitus , type 1 , hypertension , obesity , and acute upper respiratory tract infection .
SPECIAL PROCEDURES AND OPERATIONS :
03-23-92 , coronary artery bypass grafting x five , cardiac catheterization on 03-17-92 .
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient is a 59 year old female , admitted to the Fairm of Ijordcompmac Hospital with chest pain during stage 1 of an exercise tolerance test .
The patient has a long history of hypertension , diabetes mellitus , and a previous myocardial infarction , who developed exertional chest pain and was admitted to an outside hospital in October and discharged to home and subsequently has had frequent exertional substernal chest pain , which occurs four to five times per day and is relieved with sublingual nitroglycerin .
The patient denies any palpitations , syncope , valvular heart disease , dyspnea on exertion , orthopnea or peripheral edema .
On the day of admission , while undergoing exercise tolerance test , the patient developed 10/10 substernal chest pain accompanied by nausea and mild diaphoresis .
The pain lasted approximately 35 minutes and was relieved by sublingual nitroglycerin .
The electrocardiogram revealed inferior ST segment elevations and precordial ST segment depressions .
The patient was then admitted for treatment and further evaluation of her chest pain .
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY :
remarkable for insulin dependent diabetes mellitus and hypertension .
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY :
status post cesarean section .
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION :
Lopressor 50 mg PO b.i.d. , Aspirin , Isordil 20 mg PO t.i.d.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION :
On physical examination , the patient is an overweight , anxious female in moderate distress .
Her vital signs included a temperature of 99.7 , blood pressure 163/84 , heart rate 84 and respirations 20 .
The neck was supple and carotids are normal , carotids were without bruits .
Chest is clear to auscultation and percussion .
Cardiovascular exam :
regular rate and rhythm , no murmur , rub or gallop .
The abdomen was soft , nontender , nondistended , obese with no palpable masses .
The rectal examination was guaiac negative .
Extremities :
no evidence of clubbing , cyanosis or edema .
The neurological examination was completely nonfocal .
Pulses were 2+ and symmetrical throughout .
LABORATORY DATA :
significant for a CK of 67 .
The sodium was 136 , potassium 4.2 , BUN and creatinine of 17 and .7 , glucose 249 , hematocrit 37.2 , white blood count of 18.2 , prothrombin time of 9.9 , partial thromboplastin time of 29.8 .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
The patient was admitted with a diagnosis of coronary artery disease and was placed on a rule out protocol for a myocardial infarction .
The second hospital day , the patient was taken to the cardiac catheterization lab where she underwent right and left heart cardiac catheterization .
The cardiac catheterization revealed severe diffuse coronary artery disease with moderately compromised left ventricular function .
The patient was placed on intravenous heparin and her aspirin was stopped .
The patient remained in stable condition until she was taken to the operating room on 03-23-92 , and underwent coronary artery bypass grafting procedure x five .
The patient tolerated the procedure well .
There were no complications during the procedure .
The patient was taken to the Nilame Hospital Cardiac Surgical Intensive Care Unit in stable condition , where she had an uneventful immediate postoperative course .
The patient was then extubated on postoperative day one and was transferred to the floor .
The remainder of the patient &apos;s postoperative course was unremarkable .
Issues included diuresis , chest physical therapy , control of blood sugars .
The patient had several episodes of atrial fibrillation with rapid ventricular response , but converted back to normal sinus rhythm .
She was treated with digoxin and a beta blocker .
The patient was discharged home in stable condition on postoperative day number seven .
FOLLOWUP :
She will be followed by her cardiologist , Dr. Len Fyfejescdoyle , her local medical doctor at the ASDH , Dr. Lenni Vera , and Dr. Kotebeathe of the Endocrinology Service .
KOLO TITCHETLAND , M.D.
DICTATING FOR :
LENNI VERA , M.D. LEN FYFEJESCDOYLE , M.D.
TR :
tt / bmot
DD :
04-21-92
TD :
04/22/92
CC :
