463067067
FIH
7339944
31403/p8v6
363828
1/6/1994 12:00:00 AM
LEFT LUNG ATELECTASIS WITH CHRONIC OBSTRUCTIVE PULMONARY
Unsigned
DIS
Report Status :
Unsigned
ADMISSION DATE :
01/06/94
DISCHARGE DATE :
02/17/94
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS :
Left lung atelectasis with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease .
ASSOCIATED DIAGNOSIS :
Bilateral mastectomy treated with radiation therapy and chemotherapy .
PRINCIPAL PROCEDURE :
1/13/94 - flexible bronchoscopy with biopsy , mediastinoscopy and biopsy , left pleural biopsy with excision of redundant left lower lobe emphysematous bullae ( reduction pneumoplasty ) .
ASSOCIATED PROCEDURES :
2/14/94 - tracheostomy .
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
Mrs. Scarv is a 70 year old female who presented with a two and a half year history of dyspnea and progressively worsening exercise tolerance .
Her work up included a cardiac catheterization which showed moderate disease and pulmonary function tests which showed an FEV1 of .93 and a DLCO of 5.12 .
Her x-rays and CT scans showed progressive infiltrate in the left lower lobe .
She underwent bronchoscopy on 1/6/94 by the Pulmonary Service .
She was admitted post-bronchoscopy because of dyspnea and pain .
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY :
( 1 ) hysterectomy .
( 2 ) colonic polypectomy .
( 3 ) Bilateral mastectomy treated with radiation therapy and chemotherapy .
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION :
prednisone 10 mg q.d. , atenolol 25 mg q.d. , Cytotec 10 mg q.d. , Zantac 150 mg b.i.d.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION :
respirations 22 , pulse 96 , systolic pressure 100 , head , eyes , ears , nose , throat examination :
sclerae nonicteric , PERRL , mucous membranes not cyanotic , neck was supple , carotids were 2+ without bruits .
The heart exam revealed a normal Sl and S2 regular rate and rhythm , no murmurs .
Chest :
decreased breath sounds at left base , crackles at both bases .
The abdomen was soft and non-tender , no masses .
Extremities :
slight cyanosis of fingers , no peripheral edema .
ADMISSION LABORATORY DATA :
Room air blood gas 54/26/7.48 .
Electrolytes notable for potassium 4.2 , BUN 28 , creatinine 1.0 , hematocrit 44.4 , white blood count 8.6 , chest X-ray post biopsy :
tiny left apical pneumothorax without interval change .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
Early in through her hospitalization her electrocardiograms remained unchanged and she ruled out for myocardial infarction by enzymes .
Her oxygen saturations remained 88-93 percent on four liters of nasal prong oxygen .
Upon review of her computerized tomography scan there was demonstration of progressive collapse of her left lower lobe with a mass like effect adjacent to the atelectasis .
There were two large mediastinal nodes and needle biopsy of the left lobe lesion was non-diagnostic .
She was referred for tissue diagnosis and on 1/13/94 was brought to the operating room .
She underwent flexible bronchoscopy with mediastinoscopy .
These were negative for tumor and a mini left thoracotomy was performed with pleural biopsy .
Intraoperatively there was a large emphysematous portion of the left lung which prohibited her left lower lobe to fully expand .
It was decided to perform reduction pneumoplasty .
This proceeded uneventfully .
She was extubated and stable with a good airway and good oxygen saturation .
However , upon transferring her from the operating room bed to the stretcher she had an arrest .
This appeared to be respiratory in origin .
She was placed back on the operating room table and cardiopulmonary resuscitation was begun .
Pressors were given and she quickly responded with a return in blood pressure and heart rate .
Her blood pressure remained unstable requiring large amounts of pressors .
X-rays showed no pneumothorax and there was no bleeding from her chest tubes .
She was therefore transferred up to the Respiratory Intensive Care Unit .
Early in her postoperative course her pulmonary artery pressures were quite high , 70/30 .
Her wedge pressure was 20 and there were no electrocardiogram changes .
She ruled out for myocardial infarction .
She developed a picture consistent with right heart failure with pulmonary hypertension and require nitric oxide administration .
This improved her right heart function with lower PA pressures .
She developed a right pleural effusion which required chest tube placement to remove 1200 ccs of straw-colored fluid .
She remained fully ventilated with marginal hemodynamic status on Levophed , dobutamine and nitric oxide .
Ultimately she was able to be weaned off of her Levophed as well as her nitric oxide .
However , because of persistent episodes of right heart failure , dobutamine was started .
This improved her cardiac function .
She failed to wean from the ventilator and on 2/14/94 was brought to the operating room for a tracheostomy .
She had a complicated course from an Infectious Disease standpoint with multiple positive cultures including sputum positive for Pseudomonas cepacia , blood cultures which were positive for Streptococcus milleri .
The right pleural fluid was also positive for Streptococcus milleri .
She had Citrobacter from her sinuses with evidence of sinusitis .
She was treated with multiple courses of broad spectrum antibiotics .
Given her protracted postoperative course the family uniformly decided to withdraw all support and initiate comfort measures only .
This was discussed with the Respiratory Intensive Care Unit staff .
Her support was withdrawn and she expired on 2/17/94 at 9:00 p.m.
The patient &apos;s family was notified .
RIELLEUS LARGE , M.D.
TR :
siw / bmot
DD :
02/17/94
TD :
02/19/94
