483275754 YC
45395982
934243
10/18/1994 12:00:00 AM
Discharge Summary
Signed
DIS
Admission Date :
10/18/1994
Report Status :
Signed
Discharge Date :
10/27/1994
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS :
RIGHT LUNG PNEUMONIA
OTHER DIAGNOSES :
CHRONIC OBSTRUCTIVE PULMONARY DISEASE , WITH PERSISTENT HYPOXEMIA HYPERTENSION HYPONATREMIA HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
Mr. Cliffestreukote is a 73 year old white male , without a significant past medical history .
He was feeling well until approximately ten days prior to admission , when he developed malaise , fatigue , and cough .
He reported to his physician on the 10/12/94 , when he developed worsening symptoms of increased cough , productive of yellow sputum .
His chest x-ray done at that time , showed a right lower lung pneumonia , and he was started on Keflex .
Since the 12th of October , to the day of admission , the patient continued to have symptoms , including fever as high as 101.4 , with worsening coughs and sputum .
On the morning of admission , he developed increased shortness of breath , along with flecks of blood in his sputum .
He then reported to the Emergency Ward at the Tonwe Hospital for evaluation .
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS :
Significant for a mild increase in urination , accompanied by dysuria , for approximately one week prior to admission .
He denied nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , constipation , or abdominal pain .
He denied headache .
He did admit recent travel to Estockux .
He has two cats at home , although he denies suffering any scratches , or being licked by the cats .
He had no rashes , there were no sick exposures .
He denied weight loss .
He did , however , admit to night sweats recently , as well as poor oral intake .
In addition , Mr. Cliffestreukote reports that he is homosexual , although he denies sexual contact for approximately 30 years .
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY :
Significant for a right nephrectomy in 1933 for Mycobacterium bovis , and pyelonephritis that has never been medically treated .
He has had an appendectomy , cholecystectomy , and a tonsillectomy .
He has a history of hypertension , as well as a history of nose bleeds , and a history of sinusitis .
He is allergic to Erythromycin , which caused his tongue to split and bleed , as well as to Bactrim , which causes hives .
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION :
Verapamil SR 240 mg. two a day , hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg. q. day , and Keflex since the 25th of July .
FAMILY HISTORY :
Noncontributory , with the exception of a strong family history for Mycobacterium bovis infection .
SOCIAL HISTORY :
He is followed by Dr. Rybam Selcjescpint .
He admits to an approximately 25-50 pack year smoking history , and social alcohol use .
He denies intravenous drug use .
He says that he has not had sexual activity for 30 years .
He lives with his friend , who is healthy .
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION :
Elderly white male in no acute distress , with nasal cannula oxygen .
His temperature was 99.8 , with a heart rate of 79 , blood pressure 140/90 , respiration rate of 20 .
His saturation on 4 liters of oxygen was 89% .
HEENT :
Pupils were equal , round and reactive to light .
Extraocular movements were intact .
Oropharynx was clear and dry .
His dentition was OK .
NECK :
Jugular veins were flat .
Carotids showed 2+ upstroke , no bruits .
There was full range of motion .
No thyromegaly .
LUNGS :
Decreased breath sounds at the right base with E to A changes in the right base and laterally .
There was no dullness to percussion noted , however , with the exception of the right base .
CARDIOVASCULAR :
Regular rate and rhythm with an S1 noted clearly , with no murmurs , rubs or gallops .
ABDOMEN :
Soft .
Nondistended and nontender .
There was no visceromegaly noted .
His bowel sounds were present and normoactive .
There was no costovertebral angle tenderness .
In addition , a well-healed scar at the right costovertebral angle was noted , consistent with his history of nephrectomy .
EXTREMITIES :
There was evidence for chronic venous changes on his lower extremities .
His pulses were 2+ .
There was no clubbing , cyanosis or edema .
NEURO :
Nonfocal .
RECTAL :
Guaiac negative , good anal tone .
LABORATORY DATA :
Sodium 128 , potassium 4.6 , chloride 87 , bicarb 24 , BUN 27 , creatinine 1.1 , and glucose 105 .
In addition , his LDH was elevated to 323 .
His ALT was 33 , his AST was 50 .
Alkaline phosphatase of 81 .
Bilirubin of 0.8 .
His white count was 14.9 , hematocrit 41.7 , platelet count of 487 .
His coagulation profile was within normal limits .
Chest x-ray revealed a small right lower lobe infiltrate , on the 14th , with a tiny effusion on the 20th , the night of admission .
The pneumonia was now noted to be much larger , with a new right middle lobe infiltrate , as well as with a diffuse reticular interstitial pattern noted at the fringes of the pneumonic infiltrate .
Sputums were sent off for gram stain and culture , as well as for AFB smear cultures .
His electrocardiogram was within normal limits .
His urine sediment was basically within normal limits .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
Mr. Cliffestreukote was admitted on the night of the 20th , for obvious right lung pneumonia .
The differential diagnosis included several organisms as outlined below .
(1) Pneumonia .
He was admitted for a pneumonia unresponsive to antibiotics for five days .
The pneumonia was found to be multilobar , and accompanied by significant hypoxia .
He was started on broad spectrum coverage , including ceftriaxone , Clindamycin , and Ciprofloxacin .
The ration off for the utilization of the Ciprofloxacin , was that because of his allergy to Erythromycin , an alternative regimen was needed to cover for Legionella , which was probably the leading diagnosis at the time of admission , because of his hyponatremia accompanied by liver function abnormalities .
However , he was isolated , and three AFB smears were obtained , in order to rule out tuberculosis .
In addition , sputum induction was performed for Pneumocystis , which was negative .
His urinary Legionella antigen subsequently came back negative .
However , this test is only 85-95% sensitive for Legionella pneumophila , type I , which is the subtype that causes some 80% of legionnaires disease .
However , the Legionella antigen is neither sensitive , nor specific , for other Legionella species that may be involved in Legionella pneumonia .
Therefore , the Ciprofloxacin was continued .
In addition , his sputum cultures were all negative , as of the day of admission .
After admission , with the initiation of antibiotic therapy , Mr. Cliffestreukote remained quite hypoxic .
However , within one to two days after admission , he defervesced with a significant decrease in his cough during the week , post admission .
Because of persistent hypoxemia on room air , as well as nasal cannula , some concern was raised about the possibility of underlying chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , versus some other lesion that may predispose him for persistent hypoxemia , ( i.e. malignancy ) .
Therefore , an evaluation by the Pulmonary Team of the Tonwe Hospital , as well as a sputum cytology and chest CT scan , were all obtained .
The chest CT scan revealed evidence for emphysematous changes of his lungs , as well as the previously noted right pneumonia , with several pseudo abscesses noted in infected bullae .
His sputum cytology is pending at the time of discharge .
The Pulmonary Team felt that the patient exhibited significant physical findings , laboratory values , and radiologic features , all consistent with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease .
Therefore , his persistent hypoxemia may be secondary to that underlying disease .
Despite being afebrile , with significant decrease in his cough , Mr. Cliffestreukote will be maintained , after discharge , on eleven more days of antibiotic therapy , to complete a full course .
It should be noted , that Clindamycin was discontinued , approximately three days after admission , because of the development of diarrhea .
Additionally , when switched to oral medication , Mr. Cliffestreukote was switched to Augmentin 500 mg. p.o. t.i.d. , as well as continuing on his Ciprofloxacin 150 mg. p.o. b.i.d.
(2) Hypertension .
While in the hospital , Mr. Cliffestreukote was maintained on hydrochlorothiazide , and Verapamil SR , and required no additional medication .
(3) Hyponatremia .
While in the hospital , persistent type of natremia was noted on the patient &apos;s Profile 7 labs .
It was felt that this was due largely to his pulmonary disease , and would resolve with the resolution of his intrapneumonic process .
While in the hospital , there were no complications .
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS :
Augmentin 500 mg. p.o. t.i.d. for eleven more days , Ciprofloxacin 750 mg. p.o. b.i.d. for eleven days , hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg. p.o. q. day , Verapamil SR 240 mg. p.o. q. day , and Atrovent meter dose inhaler two puffs four times a day .
DISPOSITION :
His condition on discharge was stable .
He was discharged to home .
He has a followup appointment with Dr. Naaan Jesc , in the Tonwe Hospital Pulmonary Clinic on 2-18-95 , at 9:45 A.M. , as well as with his primary care physician , Dr. Rybam Selcjescpint .
His estimated disability is mild .
We are still awaiting the results of his HIV testing .
Dictated By :
NASA LINKEWEERTSJESCLEASK , M.D. CO23
Attending :
RYBAM T. SELCJESCPINT , M.D. ON57 RP221/7499
Batch :
9144
Index No. WGRD2L3HEE
D :
10/27/94
T :
10/27/94
CC :
1. RYBAM T. SELCJESCPINT , M.D.
2. NASA LINKEWEERTSJESCLEASK , M.D.
