487197293
PUOMC
2466262
408602
1976045
4/26/2003 12:00:00 AM
Discharge Summary
Signed
DIS
Report Status :
Signed
DISCHARGE SUMMARY
NAME :
BRITTSJESC , DENET R
UNIT NUMBER :
082-53-22
ADMISSION DATE :
04/26/2003
DISCHARGE DATE :
04/28/2003
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS :
Huntington &apos;s disease .
SECONDARY DIAGNOSIS :
1. Hypertension .
2. Migraine headaches .
3. Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease .
4. History of tobacco use .
5. Status post hip fracture .
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient is a 70-year-old female with a known diagnosis of Huntington &apos;s disease , who is admitted for percutaneous gastrostomy tube placement .
The patient was first diagnosed with Huntington &apos;s disease 11 years ago , when she became aware of unsteady gait and multiple episodes of falling .
She was enrolled in Morgari Taladeech Dale Health Care trial at that time , assessing the benefit of Coenzyme Q .
Her disease gradually progressed , with worsening gait instability and dyskinesias with choreoathetotic movements .
Six years ago , she fractured her hip from falling and after that time she was unable to drive .
Three years ago , her disease progressed to the point where she was unable to perform her activities of daily living and she entered Aton Healthcare .
Her condition has continued to decline .
She is currently unable to walk without assistance .
In addition , she has been having difficulty chewing and swallowing , which had led to inability to maintain adequate nutrition and difficulty taking her medications .
She has had a 6-pound weight loss over the last several months , and she was therefore referred by Dr. Voice for percutaneous gastrostomy tube placement .
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY :
As above .
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION :
Fiorinal .
Premarin .
Artificial tears .
Multivitamins .
Lactaid .
Enteric-coated aspirin 325 .
Megace .
Coenzyme Q. Lopressor 25 bid .
Zoloft 50 qd .
ALLERGIES :
Penicillin ( unknown reaction ) .
TOBACCO :
Former heavy smoker throughout the course of her disease .
However , she has been unable to smoke as of three months ago due to inability to coordinate .
FAMILY HISTORY :
The patient has an older sister who was diagnosed with Huntington &apos;s disease , who is now deceased .
She has no other family members with known Huntington &apos;s disease .
However , her father died in his late 50s from a myocardial infarction and a brother died in his mid 40s also of a myocardial infarction .
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS :
Negative for diplopia , blurry vision , weakness , numbness , vertigo , tinnitus , headache , fever , chills , nausea , vomiting , chest pressure , shortness of breath , heartburn , and constipation , diarrhea , and dysuria .
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION :
The patient was afebrile , temperature 98.7 degrees F , blood pressure 90/60 , pulse 64 .
In general , the patient was a severely emaciated female , writhing in bed but in no acute distress and smiling .
HEENT :
Dry mucous membranes with no lesions .
Oropharynx clear .
Neck supple .
No lymphadenopathy .
Cardiac :
Regular rate and rhythm with lungs clear to auscultation bilaterally .
Abdomen non-tender , non-distended with normal , active bowel sounds .
Extremities :
No clubbing , cyanosis , or edema but some minimal bruising throughout .
Mental Status :
The patient was alert and oriented at Ph University Of Medical Center to self but unable to say date but was able to follow right-left two-step commands .
She was able to spell world forwards but not backwards .
Her memory was 0-3 with prompting at 5 minutes .
Her speech was severely dysarthric , without paraphasic errors .
She had high-frequency objects naming intact but difficulty with some low-frequency objects and repetition and comprehension were intact .
Cranial nerves :
Pupils were 3 mm to 2 mm bilaterally .
Visual fields were full to confrontation .
I was unable to visualize the optic discs due to movement .
Extraocular eye movements were full in all directions .
However , the patient had significant difficulty coordinating saccades , with multiple intrusions and unable to voluntarily look to one side or the other without involuntary blinking or head turning .
Sensation was intact to light touch bilaterally .
She had no facial weakness or asymmetry .
Hearing was intact .
Voice was severely dysarthric .
Gag was overactive .
The sternocleidomastoid and trapezius appeared 5/5 bilaterally and the tongue protruded midline but she was unable to persist with this movement .
Motor :
We were unable to do formal muscle group testing due to her movement disorder .
She had diffuse atrophy throughout with normal to mildly increased tone .
She had marked continuous dyskinetic movements through multiple joints with occasional dystonic posturing in the bilateral upper extremities symmetrically as well as in the bilateral lower extremities less so .
In addition , she had multiple dyskinetic movements of her face with blinking , grimacing , and smiling continuously .
Her force appeared 5/5 throughout .
Her reflexes were 2 throughout with 3 in the left patella and upgoing toe on the left and downgoing on the right .
Sensation was intact to light touch , temperature , and vibration .
Coordination was difficult to assess due to her dyskinesias .
However , she was unable to coordinate fine-finger movements , finger-to-nose , or heel-to-shin .
Gait :
She was unable to stand without assistance .
SUMMARY :
The patient is a 70-year-old female with a known diagnosis of Huntington &apos;s disease who presents with increasing difficulty swallowing , maintaining adequate nutrition , for percutaneous gastrostomy tube placement .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
The patient was admitted and had nasogastric tube placed and barium was given for percutaneous gastrostomy tube placement by Interventional Radiology the second day of admission .
The procedure went without complication and the patient was kept overnight for observation and starting of tube feeds per the g-tube .
The patient is to be discharged to rehabilitation at Erdiconre Hospital with no change in her medication regimen .
Nutrition has as yet not made specific recommendations on tube feeds , but they will be seeing the patient today .
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE :
Fiorinal .
Premarin .
Artificial tears .
Multivitamins .
Lactaid .
Enteric-coated aspirin 325 .
Megace .
Coenzyme Q .
Lopressor 25 bid .
Zoloft 50 qd .
DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS :
The patient is to follow up with Dr. Voice as per an already-arranged appointment .
TELSHEY MALTA , M.D.
DICTATING FOR :
Electronically Signed TELSHEY MALTA , M.D.
04/28/2003 13:39
_____________________________ BESTI TAENECHANT VOICE , M.D.
TR :
aj
DD :
04/27/2003
TD :
04/27/2003 3:26 P 408602
cc :
BESTI TAENECHANT VOICE , M.D.
