506243692_c
FIH
6305145
897198
871228
5/12/2000 12:00:00 AM
Discharge Summary
Signed
DIS
Report Status :
Signed
DISCHARGE SUMMARY NAME :
BRIDGE , ELRO
UNIT NUMBER :
413-18-46
ADMISSION DATE :
05/12/2000
DISCHARGE DATE :
05/17/2000
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS :
Pulmonary edema .
ASSOCIATED DIAGNOSIS :
Congestive heart failure , coronary artery disease , mediastinal mass , inferior myocardial infarction , bronchiectasis .
ADVERSE DRUG REACTIONS :
None .
CLINICAL INFECTIONS :
None .
PRINCIPAL PROCEDURE :
Cardiac catheterization .
ASSOCIATED PROCEDURES :
VQ scan , lower extremities noninvasive Doppler studies and overnight oximetry saturation monitoring .
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
Mr. Bridge is an 81-year-old man with a history of restrictive and obstructive lung disease , dilated cardiomyopathy , inferior myocardial infarction , and anterior mediastinal masses admitted with acute onset of pulmonary edema .
In the setting of inadvertently decreasing Lasix from 80 mg. po 40 mg. a day Mr. Bridge had sudden onset dyspnea after approximate day and a half prodrome culminating in severe dyspnea .
Upon arrival in the Emergency Room Mr. Bridge &apos;s saturations were in the mid 80s and he was promptly rendered more comfortable with high flow oxygen , morphine , and nitrates and intravenous Lasix .
Chest x-ray was relatively unrevealing for interstitial or alveolar edema and with clinical improvement ensued with the immediate therapy in the Emergency Room as noted .
The patient denied angina , syncope , preceding worsening orthopnea , paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea , palpitations , chest pain , hematemesis or melena .
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY :
Is notable for an inferior myocardial infarction , restrictive and obstructive lung disease with an FEV1 of .9 and FVC of 1.34 and a moderate at best response to bronchodilators , and a negative sestamibi scan in December , 1999 apart from a severe fixed inferolateral defect , systolic dysfunction with recent echocardiography revealing an LVID of 62 mm. and ejection fraction of 28 percent , moderate mitral regurgitation and mild-to-moderate aortic stenosis with a peak gradient of 33 and a mean gradient of 19 and a valve area of 1.4 cm. squared .
In addition , Mr. Bridge has an anterior mediastinal mass 2x2x1.7 cm. by recent computerized tomography scan without surrounding or adjacent adenopathy or parenchymal lung disease apart from bronchiectasis .
His cardiomyopathy work up entailed a negative ANA , negative SPEP , UPEP and Benz-Jones proteins , normal ferritin , thyroid stimulating hormone and a recent work up for possible bimomatous associated myasthenia gravis that was negative .
The patient lives on Ewi with his wife .
He is a non-smoker and drinks rare alcohol .
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION :
The patient was a very pleasant man who appeared his stated age .
Blood pressure was 155/60 , heart rate 70 with occasional premature ventricular contractions , respirations 14 .
Mr. Bridge was dyspneic speaking in short sentences initially on high flow oxygen .
Jugular venous pressure was 8 with a brisk inspiratory descent .
There was no thyromegaly .
Carotids were 2+ .
Breath sounds were decreased at the bases only with distant heart sounds and a 2 out of 6 systolic ejection murmur consistent with aortic stenosis with Gallavardin like radiation to the apex .
Abdomen :
soft , nontender with hepatosplenomegaly , or hepatojugular reflex , bruits or pulsations .
There was no rash and no edema and the neurological examination was non-focal .
LABORATORY DATA :
Notable for a sodium of 145 , potassium 3.6 , BUN 23 , creatinine 1.3 , glucose 104 , hematocrit 42 , white count 8.7 , platelet count 235 and a PT of 12.9 seconds .
The urinalysis was negative .
The Troponin I was less than .4 and the creatine kinase was 114 .
Chest x-ray revealed moderate cardiomegaly with no clear interstitial or alveolar pulmonary edema and chronic atelectasis and / or scarring at both lung bases .
The electrocardiogram revealed normal sinus rhythm with premature atrial complexes and right bundle branch block with left anterior hemiblock and old anterior myocardial infarction .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
The patient was admitted to the Hospital and underwent an approximate 1.5 liter diuresis within the first 24 hours with improvement in his symptoms and improvement in his oxygen saturations .
After a long discussion with the patient and his family it was determined that a cardiac catheterization would be prudent .
Prior to catheterization a VQ scan was performed which revealed a moderate probability for PE with a subsegmental defect in the lingular on the left lung .
Subsequent lower extremities noninvasive studies and D-dimer test were both negative rendering the probability of acute pulmonary embolism less than 2 percent .
It was not felt that the patient would be in need of chronic Coumadin therapy in lieu of this low probability findings in toto .
Coronary angiography revealed occlusion of the right coronary artery proximally with insignificant plaquing in the left anterior descending artery and circumflex arteries .
After a approximate 3 liter total diuresis the right atrial pressure was 5 , pulmonary capillary wedge pressure 14 , pulmonary vacuolar resistance 353 and the cardiac output depressed at 2.95 liters per minute , or a cardiac index of 1.7 liters per minute .
Based upon these findings it was felt that Mr. Bridge most likely has multi-factorial dyspnea owing to both his ventilatory limitation and to a chronic low output state .
In Hospital he was seen by both Speech Therapy , physical therapy , and the Uspend Harmemewood Medical Center Congestive Heart Failure Nurse Practitioner Program .
His Isordil was increased in Hospital and blood pressure control was relative episodic with systolic pressures ranging between 100 and 160 .
Future adjustments will be made at home pending his blood pressure measures .
At a goal weight of 142 pounds , Mr. Bridge &apos;s filling pressures appeared ideal with a wedge pressure of 14 and his goal weight range will be between 142 and 44 pounds at home .
The patient will be followed by Dr. Fraction within a week of discharge and by Nieie Naebrand Freierm of the Dyathenslycha Medical Center .
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE :
Imdur 120 mg. PO q.d. Captopril 100mg. PO t.i.d. Lasix 80 mg. PO q.d. Potassium chloride 40 mEq. PO q.d. Coreg 12.5 mg. b.i.d. Cozaar 100 mg. b.i.d. Plavix 75 mg. q.d. Allopurinol 300 mg. q.d. Pulmacort and Serevent inhalers 2 puffs b.i.d. Zocor 20 mg. q.d. Prilosec 20 mg. q.d. Colace 100 mg. t.i.d.
FOLLOW UP :
The patient will see Dr. Fraction , as noted , in follow up .
_____________________ AKA G FRACTION , M.D. Electronically Signed AKA G FRACTION , M.D. 06/24/2000 19:50
TR :
xrv
DD :
05/17/2000
TD :
05/22/2000 1:09 P
cc :
AKA G FRACTION , M.D. AMAN SCKOLLMINEVUILLE , M.D. FA HEN KNOTTIPPSFYFE , M.D.
