536196468
FIH
9975435
284808
885861
8/31/2000 12:00:00 AM
Discharge Summary
Unsigned
DIS
Report Status :
Unsigned
DISCHARGE SUMMARY NAME :
KOLLBREUTZ , VA L
UNIT NUMBER :
546-44-82
ADMISSION DATE :
08/31/2000
DISCHARGE DATE :
09/13/2000
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS :
Metastatic melanoma .
PRINCIPAL PROCEDURE :
Wide resection of metastatic melanoma to the right shoulder with partial thickness skin graft reconstruction on 9/1/00 .
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
This is a 69 year old man who was initially diagnosed with a right upper posterior extremity melanoma level 4 , 2.5 mm in depth , in 10/02/92 .
Subsequently in 10/92 he underwent a wide excision with axillary dissection which showed residual malignant melanoma with nine negative lymph nodes .
He had a recurrence in 05/99 in a similar area which was 2.1 mm in thickness .
He had this resected between 8/4 and 9/5/97 and was treated with 6000 C of radiation therapy over the right upper extremity .
He has done well since that time and subsequently in 05/98 had pulmonary nodules which were noted and a computer tomogram scan in 08/98 demonstrated a 4.2 cm splenic lesion .
He underwent an open splenectomy in the Fall 1998 which demonstrated metastatic melanoma only to the spleen .
Since that time he has been treated with _______ cells in 1999 and also with Allovecting injection to the right anterior axillary nodule .
Most recently in he has this right anterior axillary metastatic melanoma resected at Brook Hospital by Dr. Bainpruess on with local triceps myocutaneous tissue transfer .
Since April through July this area has increased in size where the triceps tissue transfer has been replaced with a bulky metastatic melanoma disease .
Surgical consultation for resection of this for local ___ control was requested .
The patient has ___ Dr. Peakekudz and has known visceral metastases of the liver as well the lung with mediastinal adenopathy which has been stable for the past two years .
The other complicating factor in his care was that he was wheelchair bound from a viral meningeal encephalomyelitis in 1966 and has relied heavily on his upper extremity for wheelchair transfer and access and transportation .
In order to workup up this metastatic melanoma recurrent after local excision only two months previously it was elected to get an magnetic resonance imaging scan of the shoulder .
This magnetic resonance imaging scan confirmed that there was a large mass which measured approximately 4-6cm anterior to the deltopectoral groove and unfortunately a smaller lesion 1cm was seen separately adjacent and medial to the biceps tendon near the brachial neurovascular bundle .
An magnetic resonance imaging scan which was performed three months prior to admission to Brook Hospital for resection demonstrated that this more medial lesion was not present at that time and therefore it was suspicious for metastatic melanoma .
The patient had a fine needle aspiration of this bulky tumor mass which demonstrated malignant melanoma and subsequently he was sent for a positron emission tomography scan which was performed at S Nakantlakeing University Hospital And Medical Center on 8/24/00 .
The positron emission tomography scan demonstrated a known larger anterior metastatic melanoma and more medially two approximately 1cm lesions that also enhanced .
These were consistent with metastatic melanoma near the brachial plexus confirmed by the magnetic resonance imaging scan .
The patient now presents for surgical resection and reconstructive repair of this lesion .
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY :
Viral meningeal encephalomyelitis in 1996 which left him paralyzed from waist down and wheelchair bound .
He is incontinent of bowel and bladder and wears a Texas catheter due to phimosis of the penis .
He also suffered comminuted fractures of the right lower extremity .
He has bilateral venous stasis and hypertension .
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY :
As above including a splenectomy .
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION :
1. Atenolol 25 mg po per day .
ALLERGIES :
Bactrim .
Sulfa .
Intravenous pyelogram dye .
SOCIAL HISTORY :
He works as a lawyer .
He is active in general practice and is divorced with four daughter one of which is a neurologist who comes to visit him often .
Her name is Dr. Lynea Moyduhe .
FAMILY HISTORY :
Father with renal cell carcinoma and prostate cancer .
Mother with primary brain tumor .
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION :
Afebrile , vital signs stable .
His right shoulder had a large 6cm bulky mass which had grown somewhat in size over the past 2-3 weeks .
The bulky mass is somewhat mobile on the medial aspect and there are subcutaneous nodules which had not been present before .
The axillary area medially has two dominant nodules .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
The patient underwent a wide excision of the malignant melanoma of his right shoulder and partial thickness skin grafting to his right axilla .
The donor site was his right thigh .
He tolerated the procedure well and there were no complications .
A Vac dressing was applied postoperatively and this was maintained for four days .
When this was taken down the graft was noted to be healthy with good take .
It was then dressed with Adaptic and Bacitracin ointment and covered with a dry sterile dressing per day .
The harvest site was blown dry with a blow dryer .
The patients pain was controlled initially with a PCA and this was eventually discontinued and he was started on Oxycontin .
His Foley was discontinued and a Texas catheter was reapplied .
He was tolerating a regular diet with regular bowel movements with digital rectal stimulation .
He began to work with OT Service .
They began range of motion to his right upper extremity except for around his shoulder .
This was kept to minimal activity .
He remained afebrile with stable vital signs .
On discharge his graft is clean , dry and intact without any evidence of discharge or erythema .
His donor site is also without evidence of infection .
CONDITION ON DISCHARGE :
Good .
DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS :
Regarding the patient &apos;s physical activity status he is to be minimally weight baring of the right upper extremity .
There is to be no range of motion to the right shoulder but active range of motion to the rest of his right upper extremity .
He is not to transfer to a wheelchair using his upper arm .
Diet is regular .
For dressings , an Adaptic with Bacitracin should be applied to the shoulder graft per day .
This should be covered with a dry sterile dressing .
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE :
1. Tylenol 650 mg po q4h as needed .
2. Atenolol 25 mg po per day .
3. Benadryl 25-50 mg intravenous qhs as needed .
4. Valium 5-10 mg po four times per day as needed .
5. Oxycontin 10 mg po three times a day .
6. Oxycodone 5-10 mg po q4h as needed pain .
7. Senna tablets 2 tablets po twice a day .
8. ___ 30 ml po per day as needed .
9. Colace 100 mg po three times a day as needed .
10. Dulcolax suppository 10 mg pr per day as needed .
11. Erythromycin ophthalmic ointment topically to the right eye three times a day as needed .
FOLLOW-UP :
Will be with Dr. Chpo Jescobea in approximately two weeks .
_____________________________ CHPO JESCOBEA , M.D.
TR :
ud
DD :
09/12/2000
TD :
09/12/2000 3:37 P
cc :
A SKIZEIS , M.D. Surgical Oncology Oston Hospital
CHPO JESCOBEA , M.D. Surgery Resident Surg. Tau Memorial Hospital
CHPO E ENLA JESCOBEA , M.D. SURGERY ON HOSPITAL STAT
