544677599
CTMC
73857414
176065
10/10/1991 12:00:00 AM
Discharge Summary
Unsigned
DIS
Admission Date :
10/10/1991
Report Status :
Unsigned
Discharge Date :
10/11/1991
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS :
RECURRENT STAGE 1B CERVICAL CANCER .
ASSOCIATED DIAGNOSES :
BONE METASTASES .
ANEMIA .
PERINEAL RASH .
OPERATIONS AND PROCEDURES :
1) Bone scan .
2) Blood transfusion .
3) Radiation Therapy consultation .
4) Dermatology consultation .
5) Im Villtro University Medical Center Medical Oncology consultation .
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient is a 39 year old white female , gravida I , para l , with a history of recurrent stage lB cervical carcinoma .
She was originally diagnosed with cervical cancer in May of l989 .
She was staged as lB and pathology showed a small cell neuroendocrine tumor of the cervix .
She underwent a radical hysterectomy .
There were positive margins and positive nodes .
in December of l990 , she had a vaginal apex mass on examination .
Cystoscopy and proctoscopy were negative .
A CT , however , confirmed a large pelvic mass with bilateral hydronephrosis .
A biopsy of the mass revealed poorly differentiated metastatic small cell neuroendocrine tumor .
Between March and May of l990 , she received two cycles of chemotherapy in two parts alternating Cisplatin and VP-l6 with Vincristine , Cytoxan , and Adriamycin .
In June of l990 , she underwent radiation therapy and in July of l99l , a right ventriculogram showed an ejection fraction of 48% .
Her chemotherapy was then changed to a single agent of Cytoxan .
Also in July of l99l , she had right hip pain .
There was a bony metastasis .
Orthopedic Surgeons did an open reduction and internal fixation of a lytic lesion involving the right femur .
On July 30 through August 4 of l99l , she received her first cycle of Ifosfamide and Mesna .
She had prolonged neutropenia and on August 28 , she was admitted with a headache .
CT scan at that time was normal .
She had non-focal findings per the Neurology Service .
On September 6 , she began the next cycle of second line chemotherapy consisting of Carboplatin , Ifosfamide , and Mesna .
Since the last cycle of chemotherapy , she has had continued right hip pain and right mid lateral abdominal discomfort .
She also had complaint of a left perineal rash over the last two weeks .
She was started on Zovirax on October 3 .
She presents for a bone scan , blood transfusion , and consideration of her third cycle of second line chemotherapy .
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY :
As above .
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY :
Radical hysterectomy in May of l989 , open reduction and internal fixation of femur in July of l99l , and examination under anesthesia , cystoscopy , and proctoscopy in December of l990 .
PAST OBSTETRICAL HISTORY :
Spontaneous vaginal delivery times three .
CURRENT MEDICATIONS :
Zovirax 200 mg five times daily , Methadone 50 mg t.i.d. , and Ativan p.r.n.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION :
Blood pressure was ll0/70 , heart rate 84 , and temperature 97.4 .
HEENT :
No thyromegaly .
CHEST :
Clear to auscultation .
HEART :
Regular rate and rhythm .
there was no distinct costovertebral angle tenderness .
ABDOMEN :
Slightly distended .
There was mild tenderness to palpation in the right mid lateral abdomen .
There were no peritoneal signs and no guarding .
There were normal bowel sounds .
EXTREMITIES :
Without edema .
PELVIC :
By Dr. Friednantflirt revealed regrowth of the pelvic tumor .
There was a dry scaly rash with multiple small scabs on the left perineum and posterior thigh .
LABORATORY EXAMINATION :
Her electrolytes were within normal limits , her BUN was ll , and creatinine was 0.8 .
Her ALT was l0 , total bilirubin 0.4 , and magnesium was l.8 .
Her admission CBC revealed a white blood count of 2.27 , with 56 polys and 3 bands .
Her hematocrit was 22.9 and platelets were l24 .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
The patient was admitted for bone scan and blood transfusion as well as consideration of further chemotherapy .
The bone scan was performed which revealed multiple metastases to the spine , ribs , and skull .
There was noted , however , to be new pain in the right shoulder and , in fact , there was a lytic lesion involving the right shoulder and femur .
Plain film revealed a moth-eaten appearance consistent with probable new metastases .
The Radiation Service was consulted and noted that past areas treated including her right femur , her thoracic spine , pelvis , and right posterior ribs had all responded to radiation therapy and agreed that treating the right shoulder humerus and the right hip which had not been previously treated was reasonable .
Planning for further radiation therapy was arranged for next week by the Radiation Service .
She was also seen by the Dermatology Service who examined the rash and felt it was most likely a contact dermatitis .
She was given Synalar Cream and Eucerin Cream as a moisturizer .
The patient also received a unit of donor direct blood .
Due to Dr. Friednantflirt &apos;s concern that the tumor was growing despite the available chemotherapeutic regimen , the Im Villtro University Medical Center Medical Oncology Service was consulted .
They noted , as well , that she had failed the most active agents against small cell carcinomas .
However , they felt that at the Venbonlea Health , there were several possible options including a possible phase I trial regimen .
The plan at this time was made to further consider the options and the patient will follow-up with Im Villtro University Medical Center next week .
On the evening of 12/26/06 , the patient was discharged home in stable condition .
DISPOSITION :
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS :
Methadone l5 mg p.o. t.i.d. , Synalar Cream b.i.d. , and Eucerin Cream .
SB325/2198 LAKO C. SCARVTWI , M.D. TH0
D :
10/12/91
Batch :
9322
Report :
H2385G4
T :
10/14/91
Dicatated By :
DALBEET B. GLOTZ , JR , M.D. VE96
