561945916
PUOMC
5147347
11893/0726
851136
2/16/1994 12:00:00 AM
THORACOABDOMINAL ANEURYSM .
Unsigned
DIS
Report Status :
Unsigned
ADMISSION DATE :
02/16/94
DISCHARGE DATE :
02/28/94
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS :
Thoracoabdominal aneurysm .
ASSOCIATED DIAGNOSIS :
Hypertension .
PRINCIPAL PROCEDURE :
2/17/94 :
resection and grafting of thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm .
HISTORY :
The patient is a 74 year old female who was involved in a motor vehicle accident on 11/18/93 at which time her workup revealed a large thoracoabdominal aneurysm at the Eifro Medical Center which was evaluated with a chest X-ray and abdominal CT scan .
At that time the patient denied any symptoms of aneurysmal pain and did not suffer significant injury from her motor vehicle accident .
She was subsequently referred to Dr. Riode Zetllille for evaluation and workup of her aneurysm .
The patient underwent a thoracic abdominal arteriogram on 12/31/93 via a right femoral approach and she was noted to have a large descending aorta with tortuosity but no aneurysmal dilatation of the infrarenal abdominal aorta .
The patient was discharged after the procedure was performed and subsequently admitted in this hospitalization for elective resection .
Since the patient &apos;s last admission she gives no history of chest or back pain and continues to be quite active .
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION :
On physical examination she is a well developed female in no distress .
Her head and neck examination is within normal limits .
Her lungs were clear to auscultation .
Her lung and pericardic examination is regular rate and rhythm .
Her abdomen was soft , nontender , nondistended .
She has a pulsatile upper abdominal mass .
Extremities :
are well perfused and she has a small left inguinal hernia .
She has a well healed right groin scar and pulse examination reveals 2 plus pulses from the carotids through the posterior tibial arteries bilaterally .
Neurologically she is awake and alert , she has normal cranial nerve function and her motor examination is within normal limits .
LABORATORY DATA ON ADMISSION :
Is remarkable for normal serum electrolytes with creatinine 1.2 , hematocrit 31.9 and normal coagulation studies .
EKG reveals a normal sinus rhythm , normal intervals with slight left ventricular hypertrophy repolarization abnormality .
Her chest X-ray is remarkable only for a tortuous aorta on the anterior projection .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
The patient was admitted and underwent resection and grafting of a thoracoabdominal aneurysm which she tolerated well .
There were no intraoperative complications .
She was taken to the Surgical Intensive Care Unit postoperatively .
The patient &apos;s procedure was also remarkable for the fact that she underwent spinal cooling during this procedure .
The patient remained intubated postoperatively .
She had a stable first postoperative day without evidence of hemodynamic or cardiopulmonary deterioration .
On postoperative day 1 she had a slight hematocrit drop to 27.2 which was expected with hydration in addition to intraoperative volume loss but otherwise had an unremarkable course .
Epidural anesthesia was used throughout her course for pain management and she was transferred to the Surgical floor on postoperative day two .
The patient developed an episode of atrial fibrillation with physical examination consistent with only mild cardiopulmonary congestion as manifested by bilateral scattered rales in the lung fields .
Serum electrolytes at the time revealed normal potassium levels and the patient was treated with p.r.n. verapamil and digoxin therapy for a heart rate varying between 80 and 110 .
The patient &apos;s oxygen saturations continued to maintain at levels greater than 95 percent and this was felt to be well controlled and she was placed on digoxin chronically and also diuresed for therapy .
She was transferred to the Surgical floor where on postoperative day three she began to complain of hypersensitivity in the left lower extremity and inability to move her toes .
This was a new finding considering postoperatively she had full motor and sensory function of all four extremities .
Neurologic assessment at the time did in fact reveal profound paresis of the left lower extremity only with absent reflexes but hyperesthesia to light touch throughout the lower extremities .
Laboratory data obtained revealed no significant changes from her initial postoperative levels .
Neurological consultation was obtained .
It was felt that the patient had been subjected significant cord ischemia and possibly this neurologic event also related to spinal or epidural catheter placement .
The epidural catheter had been removed prior to their evaluation and no return of significant function was noted over the ensuing two days aside from flexion and extension of the toes but still the patient maintained profound proximal lower extremity weakness .
MRI obtained did not reveal evidence of a structural cause for cord or root dysfunction and further recommendation of abdominal CT scanning in addition to EMGs and SSEPs to further evaluate and confirm the site of the lesion be performed .
The patient continued to do well otherwise being slowly progressed in her diet and mobilized from bed to chair without difficulty .
She was placed on a bowel regimen to alleviate signs and symptoms of constipation while the workup to determine the exact etiology of her left lower extremity paresis could be identified .
Continued supportive care was performed for the patient as again she manifested no other significant signs of hemodynamic or neurologic deterioration .
Her ultimate diagnosis was subsequently felt to be a segmental infarction of the anterior and lateral part of her T10 level spinal cord and there was no evidence of that recovery of her left lower extremity would be obtained .
Social Service consultation for rehabilitation placement was performed .
The patient understands the ramifications of her disability and continued neurologic assessment is to be made .
The patient continued to make slight gains in motor movement of the left lower extremity as manifested by digital function and some knee jerk return and by postoperative day eight she was manifesting some dorsiflexion in addition to urodynamics being performed revealed good detrusion contraction , normal sensation and a coordinated sphincter which suggested no disability to the sympathetic control of her bowel and bladder .
The patient complained of some urinary incontinence and urgency on the 10th postoperative day .
She was placed on Bactrim therapy for E. coli positive urine culture and EMG performed revealed a lesion proximal in the central nervous system ( CNS ) consistent with central lesions .
Additional neurological follow-up will be maintained as the patient continues to rehabilitate in the On Modenyheatl Rowbrook Of Medical Center .
It is at this point encouraging that she continues to slowly regain some motor function of the left lower extremity but the patient has been advised that this may in fact not return .
CONDITION ON DISCHARGE :
Is satisfactory .
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS :
(1) status post thoracoabdominal aneurysm grafting and resection .
COMPLICATIONS :
During this hospitalization include left lower extremity paresis as well as E. coli urinary tract infection .
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS :
Lopressor 25 mg PO b.i.d. , Dulcolax tablets 2 PO q.a.m. , Dulcolax suppository 1 PO q.o.d. , digoxin .125 mg PO q. day , Bactrim DS b.i.d. , Tylenol 650 mg PO / PR q. 4 hours p.r.n. elevated temperature , Benadryl 25-50 PO q.h.s. and Percocet 1-2 tablets PO q. 4 hours p.r.n. pain .
FOLLOWUP :
The patient will follow up with Dr. Riode Zetllille and she is to maintain rehabilitation care at the Laelk Memorial Hospital .
STIE FYFE , M.D.
DICTATING FOR :
RIODE R. ZETLLILLE , M.D.
TR :
iek / bmot
DD :
02/27/94
TD :
02/28/94
CC :
Dr. Nabeth Glyncred , Dr. Riode Zetllille , Dr. Stie Fyfe STAT DISCHARGE SUMMARY ( 02-28-94 Laelk Memorial Hospital )
