568076206
PUOMC
2766343
77619
287810
8/5/1997 12:00:00 AM
ACUTE MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION .
Unsigned
DIS
Report Status :
Unsigned
DISCHARGE SUMMARY
NAME :
KOTELEEBDILS , TOZA S
UNIT NUMBER :
282-52-89
ADMISSION DATE :
08/05/97
DISCHARGE DATE :
08/19/97
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS :
Acute myocardial infarction .
ASSOCIATED DIAGNOSIS :
urinary tract infection , congestive heart failure , Parkinson &apos;s disease , chronic subarachnoid hemorrhage , history prostate cancer .
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient presented to Ph University Of Medical Center with a fever .
The patient is a 79-year-old male with a history of Parkinson &apos;s disease x &apos;s 18 years , prostate cancer , urinary incontinence and recent subdurals after fall .
He reports lower abdominal pain x&apos;s 2 days .
Of note , he is a very poor historian given his difficulty speaking and inability to write from his Parkinson &apos;s disease .
His wife noted him to be restless on the day of admission , felt warm , temperature to 102.5 .
They went to a local hospital where he was found to have a temperature of 102.4 and blood cultures were done and he was transferred to Ph University Of Medical Center for admission .
He was recently started on a Texas catheter for urinary incontinence at home .
He has no symptoms of shortness of breath , cough , diarrhea , nausea , vomiting , choking on food , no new medications .
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY :
As above .
MEDICATIONS ; On admission were Eldepryl , Artane , Prilodol , Sinemet and Opuputine .
ALLERGIES :
He had no known drug allergies .
HOSPITAL COURSE AND TREATMENT :
The patient was admitted and started on Ampingent intravenously .
There was a question of aspiration pneumonia so he was switched from Ampicillin pen-g to aspiration pneumonia .
He was continued on his Parkinson &apos;s medications .
A head CT was scheduled to rule out interval increase in subdurals .
Head CT results show full bilateral acute hemorrhage in his subdural hematomas , now with slight midline shift .
Dr. Factor agreed he would review the CTs and follow the patient while in house .
He was seen by urology , who suggested to leave the catheter in for now in the setting of doubt ms .
He was seen by neuro , who felt that the subdural hemorrhages should be followed and treated conservatively as well as precautions for fall and no further intervention was warranted given risk of re-bleed which is quite high with his atrophic changes .
The patient &apos;s mental status improved greatly after the onset of intravenous antibiotics , doing much better , was much more awake and alert and the plan was to possibly send him home on po antibiotics and full Arnsperni Health services .
Bedside swallow test was done which showed him to have some aspiration .
He did have some recurrent fevers and his intravenous antibiotic were continued .
Thus , he was considered ready for discharge .
He again became much more somnolent , there was a question whether he had re-aspirated .
He again was becoming increasing febrile and somnolent while the patient was awaiting a chest x-ray and further evaluation .
He was switched over the Clinda and Gentamicin for his aspiration pneumonia and again his mental status improved .
On 8/10/97 , the patient became unresponsive and apneic .
Brachial consult was obtained and the patient was intubated and transferred to the Intensive Care Unit .
He was found to be profoundly hypoxic with sats down to 60% on 100% facemask .
He was hypotensive into the 80s .
An electrocardiogram showed evolving inferior q wave with increased ST segment and left anterior ST depressions .
RV leads were negative for ST elevation .
A chest x-ray showed marked congestive heart failure with increased heart size .
A portable echo showed no pericardial effusion and his left ventricle was severely diffusely hypokinetic with septal dyskinesis .
Anterior and inferior akinesis , apical akinesis to the posterior lateral wall moved slightly .
He had about 20% mild mitral regurgitation .
The right ventricle was markedly dilated with a kinetic free wall and very decreased function in a marked incomplete closure of the tricuspid valve with wide open tricuspid regurgitation .
He was transferred to the Intensive Care Unit for his acute myocardial infarction with very likely multi-vessel disease with concominent left anterior descending severe stenosis or likely left anterior descending with collateral circulation from that occluded right coronary artery .
The patient was also evaluated by neurosurgery , given the difficult situation , the patient was not a candidate for streptokinase or tpa given his chronic subdurals with a recent new bleed .
He was evaluated by neurosurgery , who felt that if heparin could be avoided , that would be best .
He was treated conservatively with intubation , control of heart rate and on Dobutamine for pressure support .
He was diuresed with Lasix and Diuril and was oxygenating fairly well while intubated .
He surprisingly made it through the next 24 hours .
He was dynamically stable on his Dobutamine with improved oxygenation .
The patient continued fairly stable while intubated .
Two days after the myocardial infarction he continued with stable blood pressure on a very small amount of Dobutamine .
He had diuresed very well with good oxygenation .
His neurostatus was indeterminate given his sedation on the ventilatory .
Discussions with the family were ongoing regarding do not resuscitate and long term plan given his comorbidities .
They were waiting appropriately for some information from the repeat echo after his myocardial infarction .
An echo showed that there was not much improvement in cardiac function , both right or left ventriculus .
They did at that time decide to make him do not resuscitate , but were interested in continuing supportive care to see how much he would bounce back .
The repeat echo showed no improvement in left ventricle or right ventricle function with marked akinesis of many walls .
The lack of meaningful recovery was much less likely .
Discussions were had with the family regarding withdrawal of ventilator support , which they very appropriately decided on given the low possibility of any meaningful recovery .
He was extubated successfully and was breathing comfortably on his own .
The patient was transferred back to the medical floor in stable , but very guarded condition .
No further blood draws were done .
The patient was made comfortable on a low dose of intravenous Morphine with sectioning to prevent further aspiration .
Comfort measures continued until the day 8/19/97 , where Mr. Koteleebdils was found to be pulseless , without respirations .
He was declared dead at 7:15 a.m. on 8/19/97 .
The family and the attending physician were notified .
LAURE MEDIATE , M.D.
TR :
lw
DD :
10/22/97
TD :
10/27/97 10:35 A
cc :
LAURE T MEDIATE , M.D.
