602064980
PUOMC
5102918
20144/f643
339700
12/15/1994 12:00:00 AM
DEHYDRATION .
Unsigned
DIS
Report Status :
Unsigned
ADMISSION DATE :
12/15/94
DISCHARGE DATE :
12/29/94
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS :
dehydration .
ASSOCIATED DIAGNOSIS :
dementia .
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient is a 75 year old female with a history of psychotic depression with paranoia who presents status post a few days of incontinence , increased confusion , and collapse .
The patient who has a baseline mental status / psychiatric impairment was reported to be increasingly confused and paranoid over the past few days .
She was reportedly incontinent of urine and diaphoretic .
The family also reported that the patient &quot; collapsed &quot; one day prior to admission , as her legs gave out .
Her PO intake has also decreased .
She was brought to the Ph University Of Medical Center Emergency Ward by ambulance , where she was found to be confused , oriented to self and family only , and with dry mucous membranes .
The head computerized tomography scan on admission to the emergency room revealed moderate to severe cortical atrophy without evidence of acute bleed or subdural hemorrhage .
The patient denies shortness of breath , chest pain or abdominal pain .
The patient has a history of major depression / psychotic depression since at least 1988 .
She does have paranoid features .
The patient has a history of near syncope in 1988 and also a history of dehydration .
Currently the patient is unable to provide history .
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY :
As outlined above .
ALLERGIES :
No known drug allergies .
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION :
vitamin B12 shots monthly .
SOCIAL HISTORY :
The patient lives with elderly siblings .
FAMILY HISTORY :
Mother with depression .
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION :
Elderly obese woman lying comfortably in bed in no acute distress .
The vital signs revealed blood pressure 150/83 , heart rate 84 , respirations 20 per minute and temperature 98.8 degrees Fahrenheit .
The head , eyes , ears , nose , throat examination was unremarkable .
The lungs were clear to auscultation and percussion bilaterally .
Heart :
regular rate and rhythm with normal Sl and S2 .
The abdomen was benign .
Extremities :
revealed one plus edema bilaterally .
The neurological examination revealed that the patient was alert and oriented only to self .
She answers inappropriately to questions .
She is not cooperative with the full neurological examination but she did move all four extremities .
LABORATORY DATA :
revealed sodium 141 , potassium 3.8 , chloride 106 , bicarbonate 26.4 , BUN 21 , creatinine 1.0 , glucose was 124 .
The amylase was 37 .
The complete blood count revealed a white blood cell count of 11,900 ; hematocrit of 38 and platelet count of 207,000 ; the tox screen was negative .
The prothrombin time was 10.1 and partial thromboplastin time 28.5 .
The electrocardiogram revealed normal sinus rhythm at 78 with axis of 0 degrees and normal intervals .
There were no ST-T wave changes .
Head computerized tomography scan revealed diffuse cortical atrophy , increased ventricles and no acute bleed .
HOSPITAL COURSE BY PROBLEM :
1. Dehydration .
The patient was mildly dehydrated at time of admission and was replaced with intravenous fluids until she began taking good PO intake .
By the end of her hospitalization she was eating well on her own .
2. Infectious Disease .
Admission urinalysis revealed 5-10 red blood cells , 10-20 white blood cells and few bacteria .
Therefore the patient was started on Bactrim for urinary tract infection .
She did not tolerate oral medication initially and was switched to intravenous ampicillin .
The antibiotics were discontinued after three days of intravenous antibiotic therapy .
A repeat urinalysis done later in the course of the hospitalization revealed no white blood cells .
3. Psychiatric .
The patient underwent neuropsychiatric testing .
This evaluation revealed a woman with multifaceted loss of intellectual functioning who falls well within the range of SDAT group .
Conclusion was that this was a dementing process .
The testing was performed by a staff neuropsychologist , Dr. Lornsook Trusmoag , PhD , telephone number 959-1490 .
She stated that she would be happy to reevaluate Ms. Fleetheesc in the future if necessary .
4. Parotid swelling .
Approximately five days into the hospital stay it was noted that the patient had significant right parotid swelling .
Plain films revealed soft tissue swelling , neck and face computerized tomography scan revealed a nonspecific enlarged right parotid gland with increased attenuation consistent with an inflammatory or neoplastic process .
The patient had refused intravenous contrast so a contrast study was not available .
The patient was evaluated by ENT who felt that her enlargement was more likely secondary to an inflammatory process although they could not rule out malignancy .
They recommended that a cytology sample be obtained and sent and that the patient be treated with a 14 day course of Keflex .
Cytology consult was called , but by the time the cytologist came to do a fine needle aspiration the mass had shrunken to the point where there was nothing to aspirate .
It was felt that attempting a biopsy and beginning antibiotic treatment was not indicated at this time as the mass had entirely resolved .
The ENT physician who saw the patient is Dr. Freieslowkays .
The patient was scheduled to follow up with Dr. Freieslowkays on January 8 , 1994 at 1:20 p.m. at the Purckecation Balpoingdelt Pabarnes- Campa Memorial Hospital .
The phone number is 610-7597 .
5. Physical Therapy .
The patient &apos;s baseline is that she is able to walk with the assistance of her brother or sister at home .
However , she has been reluctant to even move from the bed to the chair since admission to the Ph University Of Medical Center .
Physical Therapy has been working with her .
Fear of falling seems to be a large component of this , and the patient will likely need considerable patience in convincing her it is okay to get out of bed again .
CONDITION ON DISCHARGE :
stable .
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE :
vitamin B12 shots q. month , Colace 100 mg PO t.i.d. and Carafate one gram PO q.i.d.
DORLLA THORESTEE , M.D.
TR :
ves / bmot
DD :
12/29/94
TD :
12/29/94
CC :
Royneo Walla , M.D. , Reproductive Endocrinology Heifer Freieslowkays , M.D. , Purckecation Balpoingdelt Pabarnes- Campa Memorial Hospital , phone number 610-7597 STAT
DISCHARGE SUMMARY
