650057215
TGCHO
9289745
217091
03/16/1998 12:00:00 AM
Discharge Summary
Unsigned
DIS
Report Status :
Unsigned
DISCHARGE SUMMARY NAME :
BREUNDAIL , NETFA
UNIT NUMBER :
647-26-75
ADMISSION DATE :
03/16/1998
DISCHARGE DATE :
04/02/1998
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS :
Esophageal bleed .
ASSOCIATED DIAGNOSES :
Hepatocellular carcinoma , diabetes mellitus , cirrhosis , hepatitis C .
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient is a 73 year old man with a history of hepatitis C , cirrhosis , hepatocellular carcinoma and diabetes mellitus who was in his usual state of health until 2 days prior to admission when he had an episode of hematemesis x 1 .
He discussed this with his friend at Sloan-caer/viewbonse Memorial Hospital but did not seek medical attention , hoping it would go away .
On the morning of admission , Mr. Kote awoke from sleep and immediately vomited a large quantity of blood .
He said it was large in quantity .
He had associated right upper quadrant pain and shortly thereafter passed a large black stool .
Paramedics were called and found him to have a blood pressure of 120/80 , a pulse of 92 , breathing at 16 and normally cognizant .
During transport to the Tecal Galecounxopt Community Hospital Emergency Room , he vomited an additional 200 cc. of dark , red blood .
In the emergency department , an NG-tube was placed and additional dark blood was suctioned .
He subsequently was lavaged to clear but had a repeat of hematemesis prompting urgent endoscopy .
On endoscopy , he was found to have Grade III varices without active bleeding in the lower one-third of the esophagus that had &quot; stigmata of bleeding and red signs . &quot;
He had additional varices in a hiatal hernia .
In total , five bands were placed .
Gastric varices were also found and there was blood in the body of the stomach .
He remained hemodynamically stable throughout with blood pressures in the 150 &apos;s and heart rate in the 90 &apos;s .
There were no orthostatics , unfortunately , done .
The patient was diagnosed with hepatitis C several years ago .
He has had blood transfusions in the past but denies all intravenous drug abuse .
He has a history of alcoholism that dates back approximately 60 years , but ended 7 years ago .
He says that during the period of his alcoholism he drank &quot; As much as I could . &quot;
In May of 1998 , Mr. Kote underwent evaluation for expanding abdominal girth , nausea and vomiting .
A CT scan of the abdomen at that time revealed multiple lesions on the liver .
On needle biopsy , these lesions were found to be hepatocellular carcinoma .
His AFB at that time was 251 .
He did not undergo curative or palliative treatment at that time .
He is not a candidate for liver transplant because of his age .
At that time , he was started on Lasix and Aldactone .
Until 2 months ago , the patient had done remarkably well until he noticed an increasing abdominal girth .
He was evaluated by his primary care physician who found that he had gained 15 pounds and referred him to Dr. Lierm at Rose-tedmargpark Medical Center for diagnosis and therapeutic paracentesis , which he underwent on March 12 , 1998 .
Approximately 2 liters of clear ascitic fluid were drained at that time .
Cell counts were negative for SBP and cultures have been negative to date .
He had not had and continues not to have any episodes of fever .
He complains of right upper quadrant pain that began shortly after his paracentesis 4 days ago .
He has not had any anorexia and continues to take his outpatient medications .
He had not drank any alcohol for the past 7 years .
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY :
1. Alcoholism .
2. History of DT &apos;s .
3. Seizures , the last one about 7 years ago .
4. Hepatic cirrhosis .
5. Hepatitis C .
6. Hypertension .
7. Diabetes mellitus for 40 years .
8. Peptic ulcer disease .
9. Status post left and right fempop bypasses .
10. Status post cholecystectomy .
11. Bilateral cataracts , now status post lens removal .
12. Chronic pancreatitis .
13. Status post osteomyelitis and amputation of his right toe .
14. PPD positive as of 06/97 , negative chest x-ray , no INH given .
15. No known renal disease .
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION :
1. Pancreas caps .
2. NPH and Regular Insulin .
3. Aspirin .
4. Spironolactone 50 QD .
5. Nifedipine 20 QD .
6. Lasix 80 QD .
7. Zinc sulfate .
ALLERGIES :
No known drug allergies .
FAMILY HISTORY :
Positive for alcoholism .
No history of cancer .
SOCIAL HISTORY :
He is a World War II veteran and ex-iron worker , has children .
Daughter is health care proxy .
Lives in Ant Sonroeinland Medical Center for several years .
Goes to the beach every day .
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION :
On admission , he was afebrile at 98.4 .
His heart rate was 94 .
His blood pressure was 160/70 .
He was breathing at 16 .
In general , he was a cachectic older man , lying in bed , breathing deeply , in no distress .
His HEENT exam was notable for pupils equal and reactive to light , anicteric sclera .
Extraocular movements were intact .
His dentition was poor and his mucous membranes dry , his neck veins flat .
His carotidpulses were 2+ with a normal contour .
His chest had diffuse expiratory wheezes with diffuse rhonchi worse at the bases bilateral with egophony and mild hyperexpansion and accessory muscle use .
His cardiovascular exam was regular rate and rhythm .
He had a normal S1 and S2 , ? of a I / VI early systolic murmur at the left upper sternal border with no radiation .
He had no S3 .
He had normal S4 .
His abdomen was distended but soft .
He had good bowel sounds .
He had mild right upper quadrant tenderness without rebound or guarding .
The liver span was approximately 7 cm. to percussion .
No spleen tip was felt and there was a small quantity of shifting dullness .
His groin exam was notable for strong femoral pulses bilaterally .
The extremities were notable for a right great toe amputation which was well healed .
No popliteal pulses but his feet were warm with strong radial pulses .
No edema was detected .
Neurologically , he was alert and oriented x 3 .
His pupils were equal and reactive to light .
His had no asterixis .
His cranial nerves II through XII were intact .
His strength was 5/5 throughout with normal light touch .
His reflexes were 2+ and symmetric and Babinski was non-responsive .
His skin exam , he has a hematoma over hisleft hip , multiple ecchymosis over the hands , forearms , no spiderangiomata , no palmar erythema and no evidence of jaundice .
LABORATORY DATA :
On admission , sodium of 138 , potassium of 4.8 , chloride of 103 , bicarb of 24 , BUN of 26 , creatinine of 1.6 , glucose of 346 .
His white blood cell count was 4.8 .
His platelets were 314 .
His hematocrit 20.5 .
His had an MCV of 83 .
His chest x-ray showed mild hypoinflation bilaterally and normal cardiac silhouette , no opacities and no evidence of pulmonary edema .
His EKG had normal axis , normal intervals , no LVH or RVH , tiny Q &apos;s in V3 through V6 , no T wave inversions or other indications of acute ischemia .
HOSPITAL COURSE AND TREATMENT :
Our impression was this was a 73 year old man with cirrhosis , portal hypertension , hepatocellular carcinoma , hepatitis C , history of alcoholism in the past , history of peptic ulcer disease on aspirin without acid blockade who presented with an upper GI bleed with multiple esophageal and gastric varices .
His portal hypertension resulting in a ruptured varices was almost certainly his cause of bleed .
There was no evidence of ulcers on endoscopy .
His bleed also might have been precipitated by med non-compliance versus other causes of increased blood pressure such as increased salt intake .
The temporal proximity to paracentesis was initially worrisome for an underlying infection without precipitating hemodynamic imbalance , although no evidence of infection was established with any sputum , paracentesis culture or blood culture .
Given the extent of hepatocellular carcinoma diagnosis of cancer , the risk of worsening obstruction to portal venous flow versus ____________ was also increased .
He was admitted to the Medical Intensive Care Unit while his initial care that first night was , by system :
Neurologically , given the risk of hepatic encephalopathy with the recent GI bleed , he was put on lactulose 30 cc. PO titrated to 4 loose stools per day .
Cardiovascularly , he was hypertensive by report on admission and TNG drip , Lasix , Aldactone and propranolol was instigated to keep his systolic blood pressure between 100 and 120 .
Rhythm wise , he was in normal sinus rhythm , no issues .
His PR interval was watched as propranolol was started .
There was no evidence of ischemia .
Pulmonary wise , he had some wheezing on exam .
He was treated with inhalers .
There was a suggestion of pneumonia on exam , but not on chest x-ray .
GI wise , he underwent status post banding x 5 for bleeding esophageal varices .
He was kept NPO .
He was started originally on propranolol and then switched to metoprolol as he experienced some wheezing in order to decrease his portal pressure .
He was also started on triatide , omeprazole .
In terms of Hem wise , he had experienced an approximately 12 point crit drop with this bleed .
For this , he was given 6 units of FFP , 4 units of packed red blood cells and platelets were kept greater than 60 with transfusion of platelets .
He was also given Vitamin K 10 mg. PO x 3 days .
He was treated with Pneumoboots for DVT prophylaxis .
He was kept in the Medical Intensive Care Unit for 24 hours during which time , his hematocrit remained stable and he had no other signs of continued GI bleed .
At that point , he was transferred to Carespistown Hospital for further management .
On his second day of admission , there was a concern about a developing pneumonia based on a worsening lung exam and also worsening cough , although sputum and all blood cultures remained negative for pathogens and the patient did not have a temperature spike .
Despite this , he was started on Levoflox 250 mg. PO QD on March 18th as well as Flagyl 500 mg. IV TID for the possibility of an emerging aspiration pneumonia .
The major therapeutic concern on the floor was diuresis .
His Aldactone was gradually titrated up to a maximum dose of 400 mg. per day divided in three even doses .
In addition , Lasix was added on to help him with diuresis .
Between March 20th and March 25th , he lost approximately 7 pounds on this regimen .
However , after Lasix was added back on , his creatinine rose from approximately 1.4 up to 1.7 and Lasix was held for 24 hours .
At that time , a dose of 20 mg. IV BID was re-instigated .
On the 400 mg. of Aldactone , his potassium remained in the high normal range around 5.0 .
Therefore , on March 25th , his Aldactone was decreased to 100 mg. PO TID and Lasix was kept at 20 mg. BID .
On this regimen , his weight remained approximately stable .
He was also kept on a low salt diet .
He was also kept on a 2 liter per day fluid restriction .
By March 26 , 1998 , he was ready to discharged back to Ant Sonroeinland Medical Center , although he would stay in the Medical Unit there before returning back to his own room .
At discharge , the active issues still to be dealt with at Ant Sonroeinland Medical Center are :
1. Necessity of daily electrolytes and creatinine monitoring as his diuretic regimen was optimized .
At discharge , he was on 100 mg. Aldactone TID and 20 mg. of Lasix BID but with potassium running in the high normal range necessitating daily electrolyte checks while the exact ratio of Lasix to Aldactone was optimized .
2. He also needs daily weight checks and daily abdominal exam to evaluate his fluid status .
3. He also needs TID fingerstick glucose to monitor his blood sugar .
4. In terms of his antibiotics , he has 4 days left of his Flagyl 500 mg. q8hours .
For SBP prophylaxis , he should be left indefinitely on Levoflox 250 mg. PO QD .
5. He should be enforced on a no concentrated sugars , low salt diet .
6. He also should have a 2 liter fluid restriction , if possible .
7. He should have initially twice a week checks of his hematocrit to make sure that his GI bleeding has stabilized .
FOLLOW UP :
1. He will follow up with his primary care physician , Dr. Portal , at Ant Sonroeinland Medical Center .
Doctor Portal has been notified of the patient &apos;s progress at Tecal Galecounxopt Community Hospital .
2. From our GI Service , the patient will follow up with Dr. Shufftakeaakote and follow up will be arranged in GI Clinic for next week .
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE :
1. Prilosec 20 mg. PO BID .
2. Zinc sulfate 220 mg. PO QD .
3. Isordil 10 mg. PO TID .
4. Lopressor 12.5 mg. PO BID .
5. Levoflox 250 mg. PO QD .
6. Atrovent nebs q8hours .
7. Flagyl 500 mg. IV TID to stop on 3/31/1998 .
8. Albuterol q4hour nebulizer treatments .
9. Lactulose 30 cc. PO BID .
10. Aldactone 100 mg. PO TID titrated to potassium .
11. Lasix 20 mg. PO BID .
12. NPH Insulin 14 units subq in the morning , 10 units subq in the evening as well as additional CZI Insulin based on TID fingersticks .
ADDENDUM :
Unfortunately patient could not be discharged on 3/28/98 because , in the context of starting his Lasix , his creatinine bumped overnight from 1.7 to 2.2 , possibly because of a progression of his hepatorenal syndrome .
His potassium also climbed to 5.1 .
Because of this , we held all of his diuretics , namely his Lasix and Aldactone .
Despite holding his Aldactone , his potassium continued to rise over the course of the next two days .
It went as high as 5.8 on 3/29/98 .
He was treated with Kayexalate b.i.d. 30 gm. as treatment for this .
By 3/31/98 his potassium had gone down to 4.0 .
We then restarted a much smaller dose of Aldactoneat 50 mg. PO Q day .
This was the dose of Aldactone he had originally been admitted with .
On 3/31/98 the junior resident on Drugway Hospital , Dr. Asaleysean Portal , had an extensive conversation with the patient about his future medical care .
Patient was very clear that he did not want any extraordinary measures done in case of acute illness .
Specifically he did not want to be intubated or have any of the ACLS protocol in the case of acardiac or pulmonary arrest .
He also was very adamant that if he was to rapidly GI bleed , as from an esophageal bleed , that he did not want any extraordinary measures taken .
Specifically he did not want to be re-banded .
We also addressed the possibility of having the GI service re-endoscope him in a few weeks to look at the progression of his esophageal banding .
He said that he did not feel that that made any sense given his other comorbid disease .
The patient was very adamant that in the future he would prefer to stay at the Southnyra Erwill*te Cinee Memorial Hospital where he is in residence .
Dr. Asaleysean Portal spoke with Dr. Fat of the Ant Sonroeinland Medical Center about this and that residence will make it clear that patient is not to be transferred back to an acute care facility in the case of decompensation .
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE :
lactulose 30 cc &apos;s PO b.i.d. , Prilosec 20 mg. PO b.i.d. , zinc sulfate 220 mg. PO Q day , Isordil 10 mg. PO t.i.d. , Metoprolol 12.5 mg. PO b.i.d. , Levofloxacin 250 mg. PO Q day , Atrovent nebs Q8 hours , Albuterol nebs Q8 hours , and Flagyl 500 mg. IV Q8 hours with the last day 4/1/98 .
Patient will need no further antibiotics in his nursing home .
He was also on Aldactone 50 mg. PO Q day .
We decided to discontinue his Lasixas this had resulted in increase in his creatinine .
At the Southnyra Erwill*te Cinee Memorial Hospital he will need daily weights as well as daily lytes , specifically potassium , BUN and creatinine to make sure that he can safely tolerate this dose of Aldactone .
He should also have a low salt , low potassium diet without concentrated sweets and 2 liter fluid restriction .
He will also need t.i.d. fingerstick glucose and he will follow up with Dr. Fat at Southnyra Erwill*te Cinee Memorial Hospital .
ASALEYSEAN ILON PORTAL , M.D. , Ph.D.
TR :
imj
DD :
03/27/1998
TD :
03/26/1998 2:37
Pcc :
ASALEYSEAN ILON PORTAL , M.D. RI MIENGRE TLANDMAUL , M.D. STAT
REVISED 3/31/98
Edited 04/03/1998 dv
