684476505 WGH
3721199
41907/l59h
03860
12/15/1995 12:00:00 AM
CHEST PAIN , RULED OUT FOR MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION .
Unsigned
DIS
Report Status :
Unsigned
ADMISSION DATE :
12/15/95
DISCHARGE DATE :
12/18/95
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS :
chest pain , ruled out for myocardial infarction .
ASSOCIATED DIAGNOSIS :
asthma .
HISTORY :
52-year-old female , with a history of of nonsteroid dependent asthma , presenting with chest discomfort .
The patient stated that the previous week while in a pulmonary rehabilitation program , she underwent an exercise tolerance test .
During the procedure , she complained of a squeezing sensation in the chest , apparently associated with electrocardiographic abnormalities .
The day of admission , she noted the onset of the same chest pressure , radiating to the right shoulder , which she described as an &quot; awful feeling in her chest . &quot;
This lasted several hours and was relieved in the Emergency Department .
Mild nausea but not other cardiac related symptoms .
CARDIAC RISK FACTORS :
history of cigarette use , post menopausal , hypercholesterolemia .
In 1991 , she had an equivocal exercise tolerance test with a normal thallium study .
The patient also described a long history of &quot; cold weather &quot; exertion related chest discomfort that involved her &quot; sternum , back and insides , &quot; associated with asthma but not relieved by metered dose inhalers .
This symptoms she reports has been stable for years and was different than her presenting complaints .
On PHYSICAL EXAMINATION , 110/80 bilaterally , 68 , 18 .
Black female in no apparent distress .
Chest clear to auscultation .
Cardiovascular :
regular , without murmur , gallop or rub .
No increased jugular venous pressure .
Abdomen soft , nontender , no hepatosplenomegaly , no abdominal aortic aneurysm .
Extremities :
no clubbing , cyanosis or edema or G .
Rectal :
guaiac negative .
Electrocardiogram :
poor R-wave progression , no change versus 12/93 .
Chest x-ray study :
low volumes , no active disease .
ADMISSION LABORATORY STUDIES :
complete blood count , electrolytes , creatinine normal .
This 52-year-old patient with a history of asthma , atypical chest pain , and recently positive exercise tolerance test was admitted to the medical service with a similar chest pain , which was not associated with electrocardiogram changes .
She ruled out for a myocardial infarction by creatine kinase enzymes .
Given the similarity of her current presentation to her recent positive stress test , and wish to avoid beta blockade , due to her asthma , an inpatient thallium study was ordered .
While in the hospital she remained pain free .
She exhibited no bronchospasm while taking enteric coated aspirin .
When an exercise thallium study was unable to be obtained 48 hours after admission , the patient was discharged to follow up for an out patient study and with her internist , Dr. Kanner .
At discharge , she looked and felt well .
NASA KANNER , M.D.
TR :
mp / bihn
DD :
1/4/96
TD :
01/08/96
CC :
