701572223
PUOMC
5669108
996091
857234
11/26/1999 12:00:00 AM
Discharge Summary
Unsigned
DIS
Report Status :
Unsigned
DISCHARGE SUMMARY
NAME :
PA , THA
UNIT NUMBER :
665-33-96
ADMISSION DATE :
11/26/1999
DISCHARGE DATE :
11/27/1999
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS :
Hypoglycemic seizure .
ASSOCIATED DIAGNOSES :
Insulin dependent diabetes mellitus and mitral stenosis .
PRINCIPAL PROCEDURE :
Intubation .
Echocardiogram .
HISTORY AND REASON FOR HOSPITALIZATION :
Ms. Pa is a 67 year old woman with a history notable for congestive heart failure , chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , insulin dependent diabetes mellitus , transient ischemic attacks and paroxysmal atrial fibrillation .
Over the few months prior to admission the patient has had increasing dyspnea on exertion and increasing weight gain to the tune of approximately 30 lbs despite increasing diuresis by her primary care physician .
An echocardiogram at the Ph University Of Medical Center in 1997 revealed a normal ejection fraction and no wall motion abnormality .
By her primary care physicians report an echocardiogram at an outside hospital in June 1999 revealed mild left atrial enlargement and mild right ventricular dilatation .
The primary care physician also reports an increasing new mitral regurgitation murmur over the past several weeks .
The patient has a Persantin Thallium stress test at an outside hospital on 11/22/99 which reportedly was negative for ischemia .
She has had no chest pain .
She does not smoke and has no history of coronary artery disease .
Three days prior to admission , secondary to increasing difficulty with ambulation and dyspnea on exertion the patient was admitted to a nursing home .
Outside the hospital the patient is non-compliant with her diet running her sugars in the 200s despite NPH insulin .
On arrival to the nursing home she was fed an in-house diet which was markedly less coloric and sugar filled than her home diet .
Early on the morning of admission the patient was found down , diaphoretic and responsive only to sternal rub .
She had a witnessed seizure-like episode .
Her blood sugar was 48 .
Emergency Medical Service was called .
The patient was intubated , given thiamine and D50 as well as intravenous Lasix and she was transferred to the Ph University Of Medical Center Emergency Room .
In the Ph University Of Medical Center Emergency Room she was afebrile with a blood pressure 150/80 , heart rate in the 60s , oxygen saturation of 100% .
She was arousable to sternal rub only .
She had minimal crackles bilaterally and had an unremarkable electrocardiogram .
Her chest x-ray showed only mild failure .
She was admitted to the Medical Intensive Care Unit for further management .
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY :
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease .
Insulin dependent diabetes mellitus complicated by neuropathy , nephropathy and retinopathy status post laser treatment .
Severe degenerative joint disease of the spine and knees .
Paroxysmal atrial fibrillation without anticoagulation given a history of gastrointestinal bleed .
Upper gastrointestinal bleed in 1997 in the context of Coumadin for paroxysmal atrial fibrillation .
Hypercholesterolemia status post multiple transient ischemic attacks in the past , status post a right hemiparesis which has now resolved on aspirin .
Mild chronic dementia .
History of supraventricular tachycardia in 06/99 felt secondary to Desipramine toxicity .
Magnetic resonance imaging scan at that time notable only for chronic white matter changes .
Congestive heart failure .
Depression .
Hypertension .
Hypothyroidism .
Endometrial hyperplasia .
Fibromyalgia .
Left breast mass with negative mammography .
Essential tremor .
Glaucoma .
ALLERGIES :
Relafen which is contra-indicated because of ulcers .
Ultram .
Tetracycline .
Melphalan .
Bactrim .
Desipramine which causes supraventricular tachycardia .
SOCIAL HISTORY :
The patient lives in a nursing home .
No alcohol use .
No drug use .
No tobacco use .
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION :
On admission to the Medical Intensive Care Unit the patient was arousable to voice .
Pupils equal , round , reactive to light and accomodation .
Extra-ocular movements intact .
She was moving all four extremities .
Toes were down going bilaterally .
Vital signs :
temperature 95.1 F , heart rate 89 beats per minute in sinus rhythm .
Blood pressure 165/90 .
Pupils equal , round , reactive to light and accomodation .
Extra-ocular movements intact .
Neck supple and non-tender without thyromegaly or nodules .
2+ carotid pulses without bruits .
Jugular venous pressure 10 cm .
Lungs with crackles bilaterally up the lung field .
Heart regular rate and rhythm with a 1/6 systolic murmur with question of an opening snap .
A diastolic murmur was noted by one listener .
Abdomen had mild right upper quadrant tenderness with positive bowel sounds .
Rectal was guaiac positive .
Extremities had marked pitting edema bilaterally .
Right heel ulcer with eschar .
LABORATORY AND RADIOLOGIC DATA :
Plasma sodium 134 , plasma carbon dioxide 34.8 , blood urea nitrogen 67 , creatinine 1.2 , glucose 165 , liver function tests were normal .
Amylase 473 , lipase 6.8 , white blood cell count 7.4 , hematocrit 32.4 , platelets 222 .
Urine analysis showed no urinary tract infection .
Chest x-ray showed no pulmonary edema or infiltrate and minimal linear atelectasis in the right mid lung zone .
KUB showed no bowel obstruction .
Electrocardiogram had normal sinus rhythm with no changes compared with prior electrocardiogram .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
By system .
1. ENDOCRINE :
The patient &apos;s seizure was thought to be secondary to hypoglycemia in the setting of decreased oral intake on her standard anti-glycemic medications .
She will be transferred back to her long term care facility on a CZI sliding scale for close management of her sugars pending further assessment of her baseline anti-glycemic medication needs .
2. NEUROLOGICAL :
The patient has a history of transient ischemic attacks in the past .
Her seizure was thought secondary to hypoglycemia and she had no further seizure activity in the hospital .
She did have some slightly paranoid behavior which her son says is typical .
She was continued on her Trazodone , Neurontin and Zyprexa .
3. CARDIOVASCULAR :
The patient had an echocardiogram which revealed a normal ejection fraction , no wall motion abnormalities but mitral stenosis with peak gradient of 19 and mean gradient of 9 , dilated right ventricle , dilated right atrium , and right ventricle systolic pressure in the 60s .
She was aggressively diuresed and her shortness of breath somewhat improved as did her pedal edema .
After discussion with her primary care physician it was decided that she would have further cardiology assessment as an outpatient .
4. PULMONARY :
The patient was extubated quickly after her admission and maintained good oxygen saturation .
She was aggressively diuresed for her minimal congestive heart failure .
5. GASTROINTESTINAL :
The patient had guaiac positive stools and had an elevated amylase without an elevated lipase .
These findings suggest some bowel pathology .
The patient is known to have had an upper gastrointestinal bleed in 1997 in the context of Coumadin .
An outpatient gastrointestinal workup may be indicated .
6. RENAL :
The patient maintained her baseline creatinine which reflects chronic renal insufficiency secondary to her diabetes .
7. INFECTIOUS DISEASE :
The patient was treated on Unasyn for concern of cellulitis .
The patient &apos;s lower extremities were bilaterally erythematous consistent with chronic venous stasis .
However she did have a low grade temperature to 100F and it was thought that given her diabetes and ulcer on her heel she should be covered for possible cellulitis .
She will be discharged on a one week course of Augmentin .
The patient was discharged to her chronic care facility on 11/27/99 in stable condition .
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE :
1. Albuterol nebs 2.5 mg po q4h as needed .
2. Atrovent nebs .5 mg four times per day as needed .
3. Dulcolax 10 mg pr per day as needed .
4. Mevacor 20 mg po twice a day .
5. Olanzapine 2.5 mg po per day .
6. Prilosec 20 mg po twice a day .
7. Senna syrup 2 teaspoons po twice a day .
8. Augmentin 500 mg twice a day x 7 days .
9. Verapamil 80 mg po three times a day .
10. Lasix 120 mg po per day .
11. Trazodone 75 mg po qhs .
12. Neurontin 200 mg po three times a day .
13. Synthroid 125 ugms po per day .
14. Kay-Ciel slow release 40 mEq po per day .
15. Heparin 5000 units subcutaneously twice a day .
16. CZI regular insulin sliding insulin with four times per day fingersticks .
17. Isordil 10 mg po three times a day .
18. Pilocarpine 2% 1 gtt ou three times a day .
19. Encasa 325 mg po per day .
DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS :
She should have a diabetic diet without added salt and low cholesterol .
CENTESHA SKIFOLM , M.D.
TR :
xi
DD :
Thanksgiving
TD :
11/27/1999 1:31 P
cc :
NYJO SKIZUKDALE , M.D. MEDICINE RESIDENT MED NLM LAKO SCARVTWI , M.D. PULMONARY / CRITICAL CARE UNIT BARLDI HEALTH STAT
