702802626
CTMC
81917994
155600
9/13/1993 12:00:00 AM
Discharge Summary
Signed
DIS
Admission Date :
09/13/1993
Report Status :
Signed
Discharge Date :
10/06/1993
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS :
1) FOREIGN BODY EXTRACTION OF CHICKEN FROM ESOPHAGUS .
2) ALCOHOL ABUSE .
3) HYPOPHARYNGEAL CANCER .
4) ALCOHOLIC CIRRHOSIS .
5) HISTORY OF PAROXYSMAL ATRIAL FIBRILLATION .
6) SUSPECTED ASPIRATION PNEUMONIA .
7) HISTORY OF ALCOHOL WITHDRAWAL SEIZURES .
8) STATUS POST UPPER GASTROINTESTINAL BLEED ON THIS ADMISSION .
9) STATUS POST ILEUS SECONDARY TO GENERAL ANESTHESIA FOR TOOTH EXTRACTION ON THIS ADMISSION .
10) STATUS POST TOOTH EXTRACTION .
11) HISTORY OF HYPERTENSION .
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient is a 69-year-old male with a long history of alcohol abuse , withdrawal seizures , and hypopharyngeal cancer now admitted with foreign body in hypopharynx .
The patient has a long history of alcohol abuse and alcoholic liver disease as well as seizure disorder related to alcohol withdrawal and multiple Retelk County Medical Center admissions for detox and multiple detox facilities in the past .
The patient also recently ( 06/93 ) was diagnosed with infiltrating cancer of the hypopharynx and was scheduled to undergo XRT but had not yet started .
Recently the patient noticed hoarseness secondary to vocal cord involvement of the tumor .
On the day of admission the patient was in a detox center undergoing detox prior to beginning his XRT and was in his usual state of health at that time when he had the acute onset of coughing after swallowing some chicken a la king .
The patient also was noted to have secretions draining from his mouth .
He denied any shortness of breath at that time .
He was transferred to Stamgibonnole Hospital for further evaluation .
In the Emergency Room the patient underwent EGD by GI where a large piece of chicken was visualized at the level of the cricopharyngeus .
Despite multiple attempts at extraction at that point they were unable to extract the foreign body and it was felt that the patient should be admitted and attempt extraction later in the afternoon .
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY :
1) Alcohol abuse complicated by hepatitis , cirrhosis , seizure disorder , encephalopathy .
2) History of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation .
3) Hypertension .
4) Hypopharyngeal cancer .
5) Chronic right lower lobe opacity on chest x-ray noted to be probable scarring vs. fat pad .
6) Question of internal capsule CVA on CT scan .
ALLERGIES :
Penicillin , shellfish , Doxycycline , also the patient had rash with Ceclor .
MEDICATIONS :
On transfer included Dilantin 100 mg po t.i.d. , Ceclor , Motrin , Percocet p.r.n.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION :
On admission he is a disheveled elderly male uncooperative with the exam .
Vital signs revealed the patient was afebrile , blood pressure 150/90 , pulse 86 and regular , respiratory rate 24 , and oxygen saturation 91% on room air .
HEENT exam revealed sclerae were injected , pupils equal and reactive .
Neck exam no JVD or lymphadenopathy .
Chest exam coarse upper airway sounds , no rales .
Cardiovascular exam regular rate and rhythm without murmur .
Abdominal exam obese , hypoactive bowel sounds , non-tender , some guarding , no rebound tenderness .
Extremities with trace pedal edema , 1 to 2+ dorsalis pedis pulses .
LABORATORY DATA :
On admission Hct 42.1 , white count 7.6 , platelets 132 .
Dilantin level 13.7 .
SMA 7 was unremarkable aside from a glucose of 173 and a potassium of 3.1 .
LFTs revealed ALT of 44 , AST of 36 , LDH of 277 , alk phos 155 , total bili 0.7 , and direct bili 0.4. Total protein 7.2 , albumin 3.7 , calcium 9.3. PT and PTT were 13.3 and 23.5 respectively .
UA was negative with sediment , 4 to 5 white cells , 1 to 2 red cells , and 1+ bacteria .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
By systems -
1) GI - The patient was admitted to the floor and underwent extraction of the piece of chicken from his esophagus later that afternoon .
Extraction was successful and foreign body was removed piecemeal .
EGD was performed .
Subsequently at the site where the chicken was stuck there was no notable trauma or lesion distal to the chicken .
There was some gastritis and duodenitis but no frank ulcers .
The patient was sent to the floor and GI wise was doing well until approximately 9/22/93 when he developed an ileus one day status post teeth extraction and general anesthesia .
The patient also had a GI bleed at that time and an NG tube was placed with removal of 2500 cc of dark brown bilious guaiac positive fluid .
The patient was stabilized with fluid and improved quickly from this status over the weekend and Hct has been stable since that time .
Other GI issues include the patient &apos;s hypopharyngeal cancer which will be discussed below .
2) Oncology - The patient was diagnosed prior to this admission with hypopharyngeal cancer for which he was going to undergo external radiation therapy for .
Because of the multiple complications and lack of nutrition and inability of the patient to swallow without aspirating it was felt that this should be delayed until he is under better nutritional status .
3) Feeding and nutrition - The patient was unable to eat any food or drink by mouth given that he demonstrated frank aspiration each time he attempted this including with soft solids and puree foods .
A swallowing study was performed which clearly demonstrated frank aspiration and poor swallowing mechanism by the patient .
Several NG tubes were placed and the patient kept pulling the NG tubes out because his mental status was not completely cleared .
The patient was sustained on IV fluids with D10 and multivitamins , thiamine , and folate .
He was kept NPO given his history of aspiration and further attempts were made to fee the patient and finally as the patient &apos;s mental status cleared he was responsive to having an NG feeding tube placed with Jevity feeds started .
Other options were considered including a PEG placement as well as surgical placement of a gastrostomy tube , however , it was felt that less aggressive measures with an NG tube would be prudent at this juncture given the patient &apos;s poor prognosis for the future .
The family was involved in making decisions regarding the patient &apos;s nutritional status and originally felt that IV fluids alone should be used , however , finally decided that some sort of feeding should be undertaken and the NG tube was the initial thought .
It is felt that if the NG tube does not work out the patient may need to be reassessed for potential placement of a gastrostomy tube , however , it is felt by all parties involved that the aggressive end may also present significant risk to this patient given that an operative procedure may be dangerous and patient has shown significant desaturation and uncooperativeness with his first EGD on admission .
4) Pulmonary - The patient had a clear chest x-ray other than a right lower lobe opacity consistent with scarring vs. fat pad which has been chronic on admission .
The patient was saturating well throughout the initial part of the stay until he had the upper GI bleed on 9/22/93 at which time he also had significant aspiration of vomitus and was considered to have a probable aspiration pneumonia but with vague findings on chest x-ray .
The chest x-ray cleared rather rapidly and on the third day post aspiration was consistent with the original admission x-ray .
However , after aspiration given that the patient had a white count bump from under 10,000 to 16,000 it was felt that he should be started on antibiotics and he was started on Ceftriaxone and clindamycin for a total 10 day course for presumptive aspiration pneumonia .
The patient was afebrile throughout this period and tolerated antibiotics well and pneumonia appeared to resolve .
No organism was ever cultured out of the sputum .
5) GU - The patient was not entirely responsive to using urinal or the bathroom and at times was incontinent .
It was thought that a Foley catheter would be most appropriate and he seemed to tolerate this well .
He had at one point the possibility of UTI but he was asymptomatic and on rechecking the urine there was no sign of urinary tract infection .
The patient continued to be asymptomatic .
6) Neurological - The patient originally was almost completely non-responsive at least to verbal command but as his hospital course progressed he became somewhat more alert and towards the end of his hospital course was much more alert and oriented usually only times two and was difficult .
The patient was much more cooperative towards the end of his stay and much more appropriate , however , he did not seem to fully comprehend the fact that he had cancer and that he would not be able to swallow things by mouth .
These issues were explained to him repeatedly , however , he did not appear to comprehend them from day to day .
Psychiatry evaluated the patient and felt that he was not competent to decide his own affairs .
7) Social issues - The wife had obtained health proxy prior to this admission and it was felt that since the patient was not competent to make decisions on his own the wife would make decisions regarding the health status and treatment of the patient .
It was decided the patient &apos;s code status would not be DNR , DNI .
8) Dental - The patient was noted to have very few teeth and it was noted that none appeared viable and it was felt that since he would be undergoing XRT in the future that his teeth should be removed to avoid radiation necrosis in the future when he received his XRT .
He underwent extraction of all his teeth on 9/21/93 tolerating the procedure well initially but then developed the ileus as noted above and subsequently a GI bleed .
Laboratory data on discharge revealed SMA 7 with sodium 134 , potassium 4.4 , chloride 103 , CO2 24 , BUN 5 , and creatinine 0.9 which has been stable at 0.9 to 1.0 with glucose 96 .
CBC revealed Hct 30.7 which has been ranging from high of 29 to 31 over the last week .
The white count was 7.5 , platelets 196 .
The last PT and PTT on 09/26/93 were 13.4 and 27.3 with INR of 1.2 .
The last UA and sedimentation revealed rare white blood cells but was otherwise negative and the culture revealed no growth on 09/27/93 .
The patient had a chest x-ray which showed a few right upper lobe and one left upper lobe nodule and a follow-up chest x-ray on 09/27/93 showed resolution of these previous nodular shadows .
A faint nodule remained in the left upper lobe and it was felt that this is probably not any metastatic disease and not of concern , however , it was suggested that follow-up chest x-ray may be taken to insure that these densities resolve .
OPERATIVE PROCEDURES :
Extraction of all remaining teeth under general anesthesia on 9/21/93 .
COMPLICATIONS :
1) Aspiration pneumonia .
2) GI bleed .
3) Ileus secondary to general anesthesia for above operation .
DISPOSITION :
CONDITION ON DISCHARGE :
The patient is stable on discharge .
The patient is to be transferred to Paw.ryfear Medical Center for further care including physical therapy , occupational therapy , and further nutritional support .
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS :
Pepcid 20 mg po IV b.i.d. for history of gastritis and GI bleed , heparin 5000 units subcutaneous b.i.d. ( this may be discontinued as the patient becomes more mobile and active ) , tube feeds with Jevity at 75 cc / hour full strength-please check residuals .
Feeding tube should be flushed q4h with 20 to 30 cc of warm water to prevent clogging of feeding tube .
Dictated By :
CAGHALA UINTEELE , M.D. SZ23
Attending :
LAYMIE MELLERNY SHOULDER , M.D. IN39 QC398/8032
Batch :
055
Index No. CFFCLP030B
D :
10/05/93
T :
10/05/93
CC :
1. PAW.RYFEAR MEDICAL CENTER
