719127931
CTMC
38167897
488517
8/28/1998 12:00:00 AM
COLON CARCINOMA
Signed
DIS
Admission Date :
08/28/1998
Report Status :
Signed
Discharge Date :
09/01/1998
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS :
COLON CANCER .
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient is a 54 year-old woman who noted an episode of rectal bleeding approximately three weeks prior to admission .
This last for about 20 minutes .
Since then , she has had no further episodes .
The patient was worked with colonoscopy in May and it was noted to have a sigmoid mass , the biopsy of which was positive for adenocarcinoma .
The patient underwent an abdominal CAT scan which revealed two areas of metastatic disease in the liver .
The patient currently feels well , denies any abdominal pain , nausea , vomiting , weight loss , denies any family history of colon cancer .
SOCIAL HISTORY :
The patient denies any smoking history and reports occasional alcohol consumption .
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION :
Iron supplements twice daily .
ALLERGIES :
The patient had no known drug allergies .
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION :
Vital signs :
Blood pressure 120/60 , heart rate 76 , height 5 &apos; 5 &quot; , weight 157 lbs .
The patient was a well appearing white middle aged woman in no apparent distress .
Skin was intact and tan .
There was no evidence of any jaundice .
There was no palpable adenopathy .
HEENT examination revealed that the pupils were equal , round and reactive to light .
Extraocular movements were intact .
Sclerae were non-icteric .
Oropharynx was moist .
The neck was supple .
Lungs were clear to auscultation bilaterally .
Heart was regular rate and rhythm .
No murmurs were appreciated .
The abdomen was soft , non-tender , non-distended .
There were bowel sounds in all quadrants .
There was no evidence of any hepatosplenomegaly .
No costovertebral angle tenderness was noted .
Rectal examination revealed guaiac positive stool and no palpable masses .
Neurological examination revealed that the patient was alert and oriented times three .
Extremities revealed no evidence of edema of the lower extremities bilaterally .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
On the day of admission , the patient was taken to the operative suite , where she underwent a sigmoid resection by Dr. Kotefooksshuff and Dr. Ischird .
The patient tolerated the procedure well .
The patient was transferred to the post anesthesia care unit in stable extubated state .
From there , the patient was transferred to the surgical floor .
Her postoperative course was uncomplicated .
Her nasogastric tube was removed on postoperative day number one and the patient was continued on our hospital colectomy pathway .
She was started on clear liquids and from there advanced via a gentle diet to a house diet .
By the time of discharge , the patient was doing well .
She had had several bowel movements .
She was tolerating a house diet and was tolerating her pain with the aid of Percocet to be taken orally .
Her wound at the time of discharge was clean .
It was healing well .
There was no evidence of any wound infection .
The patient was discharged to her home in stable state .
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE :
1) Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.
2) Percocet 1-2 tablets p.o. q.4h. p.r.n. pain .
FOLLOW-UP :
The patient was instructed to call Dr. Kotefooksshuff to schedule an appointment in two weeks following the date of discharge .
Dictated By :
LINEHY JESCGERLEBREUTZ , M.D. BW88
Attending :
TELSHEY K. BASE , M.D. RH5 XH616/5421
Batch :
03665
Index No. JIIRF6556Z
D :
09/18/98
T :
09/18/98
