757750881
FIH
1524602
840559
987221
10/12/1998 12:00:00 AM
Discharge Summary
Unsigned
DIS
Report Status :
Unsigned
DISCHARGE SUMMARY NAME :
KOTE , NIE L
UNIT NUMBER :
706-20-99
ADMISSION DATE :
10/12/1998
DISCHARGE DATE :
10/18/1998
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS :
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , pulmonary hypertension .
ASSOCIATED DIAGNOSIS :
Bronchitis .
PRINCIPAL PROCEDURE :
Right heart catheterization , echocardiography .
REASON FOR ADMISSION :
Shortness of breath .
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
This is a 65 year old lady , chronic smoker is admitted with increasing shortness of breath of six hours duration .
The patient recently went to Lafullland Le and on a flight back to Ty in Hercent Avenue , Hisflintpa A , the patient developed increased breathlessness , wanting the airplane to make an emergency landing at Ton-balt airport so that she could get medical assistance .
The patient mentions that she had been having a breathing problem for the last two years , which had gradually progressed .
The patient had not seen a physician at this time and was not on any medications .
The patient personally felt that this was secondary to anxiety , however , during the holiday she had a hectic touring schedule and she felt her shortness of breath was getting gradually worse .
Three days prior to the flight back to Maine , the patient said that she developed a cold with progressive productive cough which got worse in the last three to four days prior to admission .
The patient was not on any medication for the journey and there was no accompanying fever or hemoptysis .
The patient felt excessively dyspneic on the day of her travel , such that she could not walk to the airport and was given a wheelchair with assistance .
On the six hour flight , the patient suddenly felt worsening of her shortness of breath and got up and vomited .
She was also incontinent .
An anesthesiologist on board saw her and felt that she was significantly hypotensive and had the plane land emergently at Nebraska .
She was subsequently transferred to the Fairm of Ijordcompmac Hospital .
In the emergency room the patient was given nebulizers .
She was placed on I.V. Heparin and given oxygen three liters with sats remaining somewhere between 85 and 90% .
She was also started on Zithromax .
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS :
Notable for no palpitations , chest pain , syncope , paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea , claudication , chronic venous stasis , tuberculosis , pneumonia , gastrointestinal disturbances , weakness , easy bruising , anemia or bleeding .
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY :
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease .
MEDICATIONS :
None .
ALLERGIES :
No known drug allergies .
SOCIAL HISTORY :
Lives with husband , both smoke .
FAMILY HISTORY :
Father with respiratory distress .
Details not available .
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION :
The patient was comfortable in the sitting position with pursed lip breathing , afebrile , pulse 120 beats per minute , blood pressure 136/90 .
HEENT exam notable for normocephalic , atraumatic head , pupils equal , round , reactive to light , mild oropharyngeal cyanosis .
Oropharynx with moist mucous membranes .
Neck was supple , no thyromegaly , no nodules , 2+ carotids bilaterally .
Jugular venous pressure 12 cm .
Chest exam notable for decreased bilateral breath sounds and expiratory wheeze bilaterally , no egophony , hyperresonant , hyperexpanded .
Cardiac :
notable for normal point of maximum impulse , right sided S3 , no murmurs .
Abdomen soft , non-tender , quiet bowel sounds , no bruits , no hepatosplenomegaly , no scars .
Neurologically grossly intact .
Extremities :
no edema .
Bilateral spider varicosities .
2+ dorsalis pedis bilaterally .
No femoral bruits .
LABORATORY DATA ON ADMISSION :
Potassium 5.3 , BUN 26 , creatinine 1.6 , glucose 211 .
Arterial blood gases :
pH 7.27 , PCO2 70 , PO2 70 , hematocrit 49% .
White blood count was 11.5 , hematocrit 51.6 .
Chest X-ray :
subtle increased density in the left middle lung .
Electrocardiogram notable for sinus tachycardia with emphysematous pattern , poor R progression V1 through V3 , and P. pulmonale with right axis deviation .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
The patient was admitted for acute and chronic respiratory distress with likely chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and question of a pulmonary embolus .
The patient was ruled out for myocardial infarction with serial CK &apos;s which were normal .
Echocardiogram was obtained which showed normal left ventricle , a dilated right ventricle with diffuse hypokinesis .
The RVSP was estimated at 35 .
Echocardiogram findings with persistent , profound right heart failure .
The patient subsequently underwent a pulmonary arteriogram which revealed no pulmonary emboli , but pulmonary artery pressure of 39/22 , wedge pressure of 12 and a right atrial pressure of 10 .
The patient also had mild liver function test abnormalities , for which she underwent right upper quadrant ultrasound which showed patent portal vein , patent hepatic vein and artery and bilateral small pleural effusions with a 4 cm. complex cystic lesion with calcified walls on the lateral aspect of the spleen .
The patient &apos;s heparin was subsequently discontinued .
Pulmonary status stabilized , with the patient &apos;s room air sat hovering around 90% .
Microbiologic work up for possible chronic obstructive pulmonary disease flare exacerbation was subsequently negative .
The patient remained cardiovascularly stable but unclear etiology of her subtle electrocardiogram changes and respiratory distress .
It was subsequently felt after full work up with a negative PA gram , plus / minus VQ , negative echocardiogram , negative sero-CK &apos;s and no evolving electrocardiogram that the patient had pulmonary hypertension secondary to chronic lung disease .
It was felt that the patient likely had chronic obstructive pulmonary disease of greater severity and duration than initially suspected and by history from the patient , in particular supported by her chronic CO2 retention on subsequent arterial blood gases .
The patient was maintained on treatment for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease exacerbation , including steroid taper and nebs as well as antibiotic coverage .
Repeat chest x-ray subsequently showed hyperinflation consistent with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease , no signs of pneumonia or pulmonary edema , bilateral blunting of the costophrenic angles , consistent with pleural thickening , and / or small bilateral pleural effusions , consistent with right upper quadrant ultrasound .
Pulmonary Service was consulted .
They recommendations included smoking cessation , recommendation for O2 use if flying back home to Missouri , continuing antibiotics for a 14 days course , albuterol , Atrovent MDI &apos;s and follow-up of pleural effusions with one month repeat chest x-ray .
It was subsequently arranged for the patient to transfer back to Balau for care there with a pulmonologist as well as her primary-care physician .
The patient was discharged in good state of health , ambulating .
Sats with and without O2 were above 88% .
A complete copy of the medical chart was sent with the patient to Lo .
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE :
Cefuroxime 500 mg. PO b.i.d. times 10 days , albuterol inhalers 2 puffs q4 hours , Atrovent inhalers 2 puffs q6 hours , Prednisone 40 mg. PO qday , then taper as directed by primary-care physician in Reveverburg .
LENNI CAN , M.D.
TR :
jn
DD :
08/04/1999
TD :
08/09/1999 1:46 P
cc :
LENNI E CAN , M.D.
DRS. RIGHT AND SIGNS , 723-763-1448 Thesa Health No Rockford Birmton
