763248279
CTMC
05841983
728467
8/13/1990 12:00:00 AM
Discharge Summary
Unsigned
DIS
Admission Date :
08/13/1990
Report Status :
Unsigned
Discharge Date :
08/22/1990
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS :
1) MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS .
2) ANEMIA .
3) URINARY TRACT INFECTION .
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
Patient is a 32 year old white female with multiple sclerosis admitted for the Ensuerlpack Medical Center protocol group II Cytoxan and ACTH with Methylprednisolone maintenance .
In December of l986 , the patient noted right leg to be dragging , worse after ambulation , profound weakness after one afternoon of yard work where she &quot; could not move her right lower extremity &quot; .
In 09/06 , she presented to her primary local Medical doctor with persistent complaints of right lower extremity weakness .
In March of l987 , she was referred to a Neurologist in Zorak , Conn and had an MRI , evoked potentials , EMG , and CT scan but no lumbar puncture .
She was diagnosed with multiple sclerosis .
In April of l987 , she was treated with Prednisone times ten days and felt better but rebounded to an even lower level of function after discontinuation of the Prednisone .
In December of l987 , she was treated with Baclofen times fourteen days without improvement .
In May of l988 , she began walking with a cane .
In November of l988 , she had onset of right upper extremity weakness and changes in her speech but difficulty with pronation .
In July of l989 , she was walking with a four-prong cane and using a wheelchair for teaching ( she is an eighth grade school teacher ) .
In September of l989 , she was walking with a walker and by November of l989 , she used a wheelchair for virtually anything except ambulation across a room .
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY :
1) Multiple sclerosis as above .
2) Status post appendectomy at age ten .
3) Cystitis in 05/89 treated with Ampicillin .
4) History of mitral valve prolapse diagnosed in l983 .
Patient receives antibiotics for dental procedures .
CURRENT MEDICATIONS :
Multivitamin one tablet p.o. q.d. , Vitamin E 800 units q.d. , Vitamin Bl2 one tablet p.o. q.d. , Diazepam 0.5 mg p.r.n.
ALLERGIES :
She has no known drug allergies .
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS :
She has frequent urination without dysuria , burning , or malodor .
She has some difficulty in initiating urinary stream in the morning .
FAMILY HISTORY :
Includes hypertension in her mother and muscular dystrophy in one brother .
She is disabled , taught eighth grade literature until August of l989 , and she is married with no children .
No tobacco , ethanol , or intravenous drug use .
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION :
On admission , her temperature was 97.7 , blood pressure was ll8/70 , heart rate of 88 , and respiratory rate of l8 .
Height was five foot and five and a half inches , weight 98 pounds , and surface area l.46 meters squared .
SKIN :
Negative for bruises or other lesions .
HEENT :
Her skull was normocephalic and atraumatic , pupils were equal , round , and reactive to light , and no afferent pupillary defect was noted .
Extraocular muscles were intact with three beat lateral nystagmus bilaterally .
Oropharynx was unremarkable except for elevation of the left palate greater than the right .
NECK :
Supple without thyromegaly or adenopathy .
BREASTS :
Showed fibrocystic changes bilaterally without discharge or skin change .
LUNGS :
Clear .
CARDIOVASCULAR :
Showed a regular rate and rhythm with a II / VI late systolic murmur at the apex radiating to the axilla .
No jugular venous distention was observed .
ABDOMEN :
Remarkable for positive bowel sounds , no masses , no hepatosplenomegaly , non-tender , and non-distended .
EXTREMITIES :
Without cyanosis , clubbing , or edema .
The right tibia had an anterior bulge without bruising .
BACK :
Without costovertebral angle tenderness .
NEUROLOGICAL :
Patient was alert , oriented times three , and serial sevens were intact .
Presidents were , reportedly going backwards , Bush , Reagan , Ford , Carter , and Kennedy .
She recalled Nixon with prompting .
She spelled world correctly .
Her interpretation of proverbs was appropriate .
Visual acuity was 20/30 bilaterally with correction .
Fundi showed pale discs bilaterally requiring ten diopters to focus .
Extraocular muscles were intact , cranial nerve V was intact to fine touch bilaterally , and facial expression was normal and symmetric .
Auditory acuity was intact to finger rub .
Palate was elevated , left greater than right .
There was a positive gag , tongue was midline , and shoulder shrug was decreased bilaterally , right worse than left .
Sensation was intact to fine touch times four extremities and proprioception times four extremities .
Reflexes were 3+ throughout except 2+ at the ankles .
Toes were upgoing bilaterally .
Grip was 4+ on the left and less than 3 on the right .
Biceps were 3 on the right and 5 minus on the left .
Triceps were 2+ on the right and 5 minus on the left .
Deltoids were 3+ on the right and 4 minus on the left .
Hip flexors were less than 3 bilaterally .
Knee flexors were 4+ bilaterally .
Knee extensors were 3+ bilaterally .
Ankle dorsiflexors were 3 minus bilaterally and plantar flexors were 4 minus bilaterally .
Coordination showed her to have no strength in the right upper extremity and no tremor but weak on the left upper extremity with finger-to-nose movements .
LABORATORY EXAMINATION :
On admission included a sodium of l4l , a chloride of l06 , a potassium of 4.3 , a bicarbonate of 26 , and a BUN of l0 .
Creatinine was 0.8 and glucose was 96 .
Otherwise , the SMA 20 was within normal limits .
White count was 5.5 , hematocrit was 43.5 , and MCV was 9l .
Platelet count was 350,000 .
Differential included 66 polys , 24 lymphocytes , 3 monocytes , and l eosinophil .
PT was l3.l and PTT was 30.9 .
Urinalysis revealed a specific gravity of l.0l5 , a pH of 8.0 , l+ ketones , and no blood .
Chest X-Ray showed hyperinflation bilaterally and loss of the anterior clear space on the lateral film likely secondary to arm position since the patient was unable to raise up her arm from weakness stemming from her multiple sclerosis .
EKG showed baseline artifacts , sinus tachycardia at l05 , PR interval of 0.l6 , QRS of 0.08 , QT of 0.36 , an axis of 60 degrees , poor R wave progression with transition after the V4 lead , T wave flattening in II and F , and T wave inversion in III .
No old EKG was available for comparison .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
1) Multiple sclerosis - The patient underwent lumbar puncture which revealed a glucose of 73 , a protein of 38 , positive oligoclonal bands with an IgG to albumin ratio of 0.485 .
Cell count was l white cell and 5l red cells with a differential of 90 lymphocytes and l0 monocytes in tube number four and two white cells and 600 red cells with a differential of 5 polys , 90 lymphocytes , and 5 monocytes in tube number one .
Patient also had an MRI scan of the head which showed a lesion in the left pons consistent with multiple sclerosis .
Serum IgG was elevated at l,520 .
SPEP showed an elevated gamma spike of l.83 and was otherwise within normal limits .
The patient underwent Lenti Pidesrah Non Community Hospital multiple sclerosis treatment , group II protocol with Cytoxan and ACTH induction with the plan for maintenance Methylprednisolone after discharge .
She tolerated the protocol medications well except for some nausea and vomiting which was relatively well controlled with anti-emetic medication and also some very mild hematuria to the tune of 20 to 25 red blood cells on micro .
This was , in fact , consistent with the fact that she had an indwelling Foley placed on admission after post-void residual was noted to be 200 cc of urine .
She received Occupational Therapy and Physical Therapy during the hospitalization .
2) Anemia - Patient had a steady drop in hematocrit from the admission value of 43.5 to the range of about 3l by hospital day number eight which remained stable at this point .
She had guaiac negative stools , no menses , no significant hematuria , and no signs of hemolysis .
Work-up included an iron of l24 , TIBC of 207 , a ferritin of l24 , and Bl2 and folate were pending but unlikely to be contributing to this acute drop .
Haptoglobin was l79 with a normal bilirubin and a normal LDH .
Glucose was 6 , phosphate deficiency was checked with a normal level of 25 being measured , and reticulocyte count of less than 0.l% was noted at one point with follow-up reticulocyte count of 0.l% noted on the day prior to discharge .
This was felt to be consistent with decreased bone marrow production of new red cells and possibly a hematocrit drop secondary to in-hospital phlebotomy with some dilutional component secondary to intravenous and p.o. hydration .
Patient did not show coincident decrease in white count or platelet count .
A clot was sent to the Blood Bank , however , the patient did not require a transfusion .
She did receive Bactrim for a urinary tract infection and this medication was discontinued given its potential for aplasia in the bone marrow .
Patient will be followed up with subsequent CBC on the September , the September , the September , and the Septemberth of 2006 to assure that her hematocrit recovers .
3) Urinary tract infection - Patient had too numerous to count white cells on urinalysis on 08/15/90 and was thus begun on Bactrim DS one tablet p.o. b.i.d.
Subsequently , urine culture prior to initiation of antibiotic therapy grew out pan sensitive E. coli , greater than l00,000 including sensitivities to Bactrim .
Patient received a seven day course of Bactrim DS one tablet b.i.d. with resolution of symptoms and subsequent negative culture .
Her Foley will be discontinued at discharge and she will continue home straight catheterizations given her post-void residual of 200 cc on admission per the visiting nurse .
DISPOSITION :
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS :
Multivitamins one tablet p.o. q.d. , Halcion 0.l25 mg p.o. q.h.s. p.r.n. ( forty tablets , no refills ) , and Acthar 40 units intramuscularly q.d. times two days and then 20 units intramuscularly q.d. times three days .
CONDITION ON DISCHARGE :
Stable .
Disposition is to home .
Follow-up care will be per Dr. Critche at the Cockdownbayscot Waredoun Inmountsonente Memorial and per Dr. A Or at the Retelk County Medical Center with regard to the Rys Memorial Hospital protocol .
________________________________
MJ092/0660 A L. OR , M.D. BI89
D :
08/21/90
Batch :
2695
Report :
X9178R1
T :
08/25/90
Dicatated By :
TRANGCA F. OR , M.D. OU12
