779810048
FIH
8956861
641681
027815
12/02/1998 12:00:00 AM
( 1 ) STATUS POST MOTOR VEHICLE COLLISION .
( 2 ) GRADE
Unsigned
DIS
Report Status :
Unsigned
DISCHARGE SUMMARY NAME :
CHIRDVAIA , RITOC M
UNIT NUMBER :
427-83-75
ADMISSION DATE :
12/02/1998
DISCHARGE DATE :
12/02/1998
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS :
( 1 ) Status post motor vehicle collision .
( 2 ) Grade 4 liver laceration through the left lobe of the liver and into the hilum and retrohepatic cava .
( 3 ) Splenic laceration .
( 4 ) Severe left pulmonary contusion .
( 5 ) Cardiac contusion .
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
Mr. Cuchsli is a 17-year-old male who was brought via Medflight to the Fairm of Ijordcompmac Hospital Emergency Room after he was involved in a severe motor vehicle collision .
Per report , he hit a highway railing and subsequently a bridge embankment sustaining multiple injuries .
Per report , there was extensive damage to the vehicle and he required a very prolonged extrication time .
His accident occurred , per report , at 6:45 in the morning , and he was brought to the Fairm of Ijordcompmac Hospital Emergency Room at approximately 8:30 .
Per report , his blood pressure was high , approximately 140/70 .
He was tachycardic to 120 in route to the hospital .
He was intubated and two upper extremity intravenous were placed .
He received 2 liters of intravenous fluids prior to his arrival here at the Fairm of Ijordcompmac Hospital Emergency Room .
He had evidence of obvious lower extremity fractures as well as some abrasions and contusions of his anterior abdominal wall .
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY :
Unknown .
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY :
Unknown .
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION :
Not known .
ALLERGIES :
Not known .
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION :
In the emergency room , his pulse was 120 , blood pressure initially was in the 90 &apos;s , core temperature was 96.5 ..
He , neurologically , was unresponsive and intubated .
He had received both [ ] and Fentanyl for sedation in route to the hospital .
head , eyes , ears , nose and throat :
revealed some superficial facial abrasions .
His trachea was midline .
He had a C-collar in place .
His chest wall appeared stable without any crepitus .
He had equal breath sounds on both sides .
His abdomen was flat , scaphoid , and did not appear distended .
He did have some bruising along his anterior abdominal wall as well as a superficial abrasion .
His pelvis was stable upon both AP and Lateral compression .
His examination of his right lower extremity revealed a deformity at his distal thigh .
He had an open laceration over what appeared to be a tib-fib fracture over his leg .
He had obvious fractures in his left hand .
His back exam revealed no stepoff or evidence of spine injury .
His labs were significant for a prothrombin time of 25 , hematocrit of 30 , other labs were unremarkable .
His trauma series revealed a left-sided pulmonary contusion and a wide mediastinum .
Evaluation of the C-spine revealed a C5 fracture .
His pelvis film was normal .
He had films of his right femur which revealed a distal femur fracture as well as a right-sided fibular fracture .
He underwent a head computerized tomography scan which was negative followed by an abdominal and pelvic computerized tomography scan which revealed a left-sided pulmonary contusion .
A small , left-sided pneumothorax .
His abdominal computerized tomography scan revealed a large liver laceration as well as a splenic laceration .
Throughout his stay in the emergency room , his blood pressure was above 90 .
He was tachycardic to 120 .
Because of a persistent volume requirement , he was taken up to the operating room for exploration .
In route to the operating room , the patient lost his pulse .
cardiopulmonary resuscitation was initiated .
He then underwent a resuscitative left thoracotomy and crossclamping of his aorta .
Details of this operation are dictated in a separate note .
We were able to obtain a pulse upon crossclamping of his aorta .
We then performed an abdominal exploration which revealed a large left lobe of liver laceration down to his inferior vena cava .
This was actively bleeding which could not be controlled .
The patient once again lost his pulse and we were unable to come off the aortic crossclamp .
Because of this massive liver injury , this large liver laceration could not be repaired and he was pronounced at 10:15 AM on December 2 , 1998 .
The patient &apos;s family had been notified and they were in route as we proceeded to the operating room .
They have been informed of the turn of events and the demise of their son .
The Medical Examiner has been contacted and the family has expressed some interest in tissue donation .
STAGA SAPCHAFFDAMMEGUILD , M.D.
DICTATING FOR :
______________________ RISSPA MEASABRAC , M.D.
TR :
jbq
DD :
12/02/1998
TD :
12/08/1998 11:39 A
cc :
EMERGENCY ASSOC TRAUMA
