782673825
TGCHO
6617957
93193/an52
3/9/1994 12:00:00 AM
VENTRICULAR TACHYCARDIA .
Unsigned
DIS
Report Status :
Unsigned
ADMISSION DATE :
3-9-94
DISCHARGE DATE :
3-20-94
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS :
ventricular tachycardia .
ASSOCIATED DIAGNOSIS :
coronary artery disease , hypertension .
SPECIAL PROCEDURES AND OPERATIONS :
3-17-94 , implantation of an automatic implantable cardiac defibrillator .
OTHER PROCEDURES :
3-11-94 , right heart cardiac catheterization with comprehensive electrophysiology study and radio frequency ablation for ventricular tachycardia .
DOCTORS DISCHARGE ORDERS :
Zestril 5 mg PO q.day , Nitropatch .2 mg once daily , Sotalol 120 mg PO b.i.d. , Lasix 20 mg PO b.i.d. , Coumadin as directed .
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient is a 72 year old male with a history of coronary artery disease .
He had experienced three myocardial infarctions since 1988 .
He presented with sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia in December , 1994 and was admitted to Tecal Galecounxopt Community Hospital .
The coronary angiogram performed during his hospitalization had revealed 95% of left anterior descending artery disease and diffuse left circumflex disease .
An echocardiogram had revealed an ejection fraction of 41% with apicalakinesis .
He had undergone electrophysiology study and his incessant ventricular tachycardia was interrupted by transcatheter radio frequency ablation .
After the ablation procedure , programmed stimulation had initiated another ventricular tachycardia with distinct surface QRS configuration but since there was no spontaneous ventricular tachycardia , the other forms were not pursued vigorously .
The patient was discharged while on procainamide and Coumadin .
On March 8 , he developed palpitations with shortness of breath and chest pain .
The patient was admitted to an outside hospital in Xingwa Moineswest where a wide complex tachycardia with a rate of 160 beats per minute was demonstrated .
The tachycardia had not responded to intravenous lidocaine or procainamide but has responded to intravenous verapamil .
The patient was transferred to Tecal Galecounxopt Community Hospital for further evaluation .
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY :
The past medical history is notable for hypertension , left ventricular aneurysm and deep venous thrombosis which he experienced one month ago after the radio frequency ablation .
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION :
On admission physical examination , he was a well developed , well nourished elderly man in slightly dyspneic and uncomfortable condition .
His blood pressure was 130/80 millimeters of mercury , and pulse was 80 beats per minute .
The carotids were 2+ on both sides with bruits on each side .
The jugular venous pressure was 7 centimeters .
Lung examination revealed crackling rales over the bases of both lungs .
Cardiovascular exam :
normal Sl and S2 .
The abdomen was benign .
Extremities :
no clubbing , cyanosis or edema .
LABORATORY DATA :
The chest X-ray showed mild cardiomegaly .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
The patient was admitted to the Step Down Unit .
The patient continued to experience multiple episodes of sustained and nonsustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia .
Intravenous procainamide was started , which reduced the frequency and the duration of the ventricular tachycardia .
On March 11 , the patient underwent an electrophysiology study .
During the study , ventricular tachycardia with a cycle length of 510 milliseconds was reproducibly induced by extra stimuli delivered from the right ventricular apex .
Pace mapping studies had demonstrated that the origin of the tachycardia to be in the inferior , lateral and apical left ventricle .
After mapping of the tachycardia , radio frequency ablation was carried out with four current applications , terminating the ventricular tachycardia in three of the four times .
After radio frequency ablation , no sustained ventricular tachycardias occurred .
However , there were periods of supraventricular tachycardias with a rate of 160-180 beats per minute and the patient was placed on sotalol .
Since the patient was known to have multiple different ventricular tachycardias , automatic implantable cardiac defibrillator therapy was also offered to the patient .
The patient agreed to proceed with automatic implantable cardiac defibrillator therapy .
On March 17 , the patient was taken to the Pacemaker Laboratory and a transvenous lead for the automatic implantable cardiac defibrillator ( CPI Endotak C 0074 ) was placed .
Then , the patient was transferred to the operating room and a Ventak PRX model 1705 automatic implantable cardiac defibrillator system was implanted .
The defibrillation threshold was less than or equal to 20 joules on several consecutive attempts .
The patient &apos;s postoperative course was uneventful .
On March 19 , the patient was taken back to the Electrophysiology Laboratory where noninvasive programmed stimulation and automatic implantable cardiac defibrillator testing were performed .
Under brief propafol anesthesia , rapid ventricular tachycardia was induced by ramp pacing .
This was properly detected and converted to normal sinus rhythm with a single 34 joule countershock .
Three zones were programmed in the cardiac defibrillator .
For tachycardias with heart rate between 110 and 140 beats per minute , no therapy was programmed .
For tachycardias with heart rates between 140 and 175 , anti-tachycardia pacing followed by cardioversion is programmed .
For tachycardias faster than 175 beats per minute , cardioversion and defibrillation was programmed .
VVI pacing at 40 beats per minute was also programmed .
The patient felt good on the morning of March 20 .
The patient was discharged home in stable condition on the regimen described above .
He will have his prothrombin time checked on Monday and will follow up with the Defibrillator Clinic .
ANN BREUNA , M.D.
DICTATING FOR :
ICECA BACK , M.D.
TR :
od / bmot
DD :
3-20-94
TD :
03/23/94
CC :
