837847756
FIH
2297151
59410/l96z
072567
5/28/1992 12:00:00 AM
LEFT BRACHIAL ARTERY THROMBOEMBOLISM .
Unsigned
DIS
Report Status :
Unsigned
ADMISSION DATE :
5-28-92
DISCHARGE DATE :
6-4-91
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS :
left brachial artery thromboembolism .
SECONDARY DIAGNOSES :
include hiatus hernia with Barrett &apos;s esophagus , pseudo-gout , and dilated cardiomyopathy with history of intra-atrial thrombus .
PRINCIPAL PROCEDURE :
Undergone during this hospital admission was a left brachial artery embolectomy .
The patient also underwent upper endoscopy and a left wrist fine needle aspiration .
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient is a 76 year old white male with a probable brachial artery embolism .
The patient has a history of cardiomyopathy and atrial fibrillation .
He was previously on Coumadin because of a prior embolic cerebrovascular accident .
The patient had his Coumadin discontinued in January 1992 secondary to an upper gastrointestinal bleed .
The patient was swimming at 4:00 o &apos;clock this afternoon when he experienced left upper extremity pain and paralysis .
He was evaluated at Sephsandpot Center and referred to the Fairm of Ijordcompmac Hospital for evaluation .
The patient is righthanded .
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY :
1. cardiomyopathy .
2. atrial fibrillation .
3. upper gastrointestinal bleed in January of 1992 complicating his Coumadin treatment .
The Coumadin was discontinued .
4. cerebrovascular accident in 1988 with a residual aphasia .
5. polycythemia vera .
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY :
Is none .
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION :
Isordil , Ditropan , Cytotec and Ecotrin .
ADVERSE DRUG REACTIONS :
no known drug allergies .
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION :
( at time of admission ) the systolic blood pressure is 180 , his head and neck examination within normal limits .
Cardiac :
he has a II out of VI systolic ejection murmur which is loudest at the right upper sternal border .
His chest is clear .
His abdomen was benign .
His rectal examination guaiac negative .
Of greatest note on his pulse examination :
his carotid , femoral , popliteal , dorsalis pedis and posterior tibial pulses are 2 plus both right and left .
His subclavian artery and axillary artery pulses are 2 plus bilaterally .
His brachial pulse is 2 plus , radial pulse 2 plus and ulnar pulse 2 plus on the right .
On the left he has no brachial , no radial and no ulnar pulse .
His left hand and arm strength is 4/4 with decreased sensation in the left fingers in the median and ulnar distribution .
The impression :
a probable brachial artery embolus .
The plan is to perform an urgent embolectomy .
The risks and benefits have been explained to the patient and consent has been obtained .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
On 5-28-92 at 12:00 midnight the patient was taken to the operating room .
The preoperative diagnosis as above was a left brachial embolus .
The postoperative diagnosis , the same .
The procedure was a left brachial embolectomy .
The surgeon was Dr. Home and first assistant Dr. Home .
The findings were a thromboembolism with propagated clot in the left brachial artery .
There were no complications .
The patient tolerated the procedure well and returned to the floor soon after the procedure .
On postoperative day # 1 the patient was afebrile with stable vitals and he had a very strong left radial pulse and a warm hand .
He was heparinized postoperatively and a cardiology consult was obtained .
In addition echocardiography for the next day was arranged .
The patient was seen on 5-29-92 by the ward cardiology consult .
His assessment was that this was a 76 year old gentleman with atrial fibrillation and a dilated non-ischemic cardiomyopathy status post two embolic / thrombotic phenomena with a recent history of an upper gastrointestinal bleed .
He recommended that the patient be heparinized as the Scabeth T Hospital Surgery Team had already done and that Coumadinization be begun within a few days of heparinization .
These recommendations were already underway .
Consequently we simply continued our management .
The cardiology consult also spoke to the patient &apos;s primary medical doctor , Dr. Blood in Clear La who related that the patient had had two large esophageal ulcers and a history of polycythemia vera in the past .
On 5-30-92 the patient &apos;s gastroenterologist Dr. Ri Blood was contacted .
Dr. Blood was on vacation , however Dr. Kotethorereke , his partner was in the office and went through Mr. Flytheleungfyfe &apos;s old chart and noted that Dr. Blood had performed esophagogastroduodenoscopy on the patient during his North Carolina admission for an acute upper gastrointestinal bleed .
During this time in January of 1992 Dr. Blood had noted two distal esophageal ulcers .
He had treated both of these with epinephrine injection .
Follow up endoscopy on Mar 15 , 1992 had shown two deformities in the distal esophagus corresponding to the presence of esophageal ulcers treated earlier in January .
There was also a 4 cm. hiatus hernia from 36 cm. to 40 cm .
The stomach and duodenum were otherwise normal .
From Dr. Blood &apos;s standpoint on Mar 15 , 1992 there was no contraindication to Coumadinization .
We discussed Coumadinization with Dr. Blood and noting Dr. Blood &apos;s earlier findings we , in conjunction with Dr. Blood decided to Coumadinize the patient and Coumadinization was begun on 5-30-92 .
It was noted at that time that a stable dose for the patient earlier when he had been Coumadinized before was 5 mg. po q.day .
That was concurrent with Albuterol 150 mg. po q.day .
Given the patient &apos;s history of ulcer and hiatus hernia and the fact that we did wish to anticoagulate the patient we actually performed upper endoscopy on the patient on 5-31-92 .
The findings were as follows .
The principal operating surgeon was Dr. Ca Scgach with the assistance of Dr. Jesclinke .
The principal findings were a 5.0 cm. hiatal hernia and apparent Ingree and Ot of Weamanshy Medical Center &apos;s esophagus distally .
In the stomach there were mild erosions of the gastroesophageal junction without other abnormalities .
There were no abnormalities into the second portion of the duodenum .
The overall impression was that there was an apparent healed esophageal ulcer , a hiatus hernia , an esophageal mucosal changes distally were consistent with a Barrett &apos;s esophagus .
No biopsy was taken .
The biopsy was deferred because the patient had received a dose of Coumadin the night before and had a prothrombin time of approximately 15 before the procedure .
On 6-1-92 the patient went to the echocardiography suite .
Findings were :
there was no evidence of intracardiac thrombus , although this was a transcardiac echocardiogram which is not the best technique for visualizing intraatrial thrombus .
There was a thickened mitral leaflet with mild mitral regurgitation .
There was focal calcification in the mitral annulus .
The aortic leaflets were thickened with no aortic stenosis .
There was trace aortic insufficiency .
The aorta at the sinuses was ectactic at 42 millimeters .
The left ventricular size and function were within normal limits with a left ventricular ejection fractio n of 57 percent .
There was trace tricuspid insufficiency .
There was evidence of an old pacer wire in the right atrium .
There was trace pulmonary insufficiency with right ventricular systolic blood pressure of 35 millimeters .
There was paradoxical septal motion consistent with bundle branch block .
The patient , it should be noted at this time , was doing very well and he was taking regular diet , voiding spontaneously .
He had been therapeutically heparinized since going to the operating room and by 6-2-92 his prothrombin time was beginning to elevate .
On 6-2-92 he presented a new complaint with left wrist swelling and pain .
He confessed to a history of gout in the past and consequently Rheumatology consult was obtained .
The Rheumatologist entertained gout as an attractive diagnosis given his history and they aspirated the joint .
Joint aspirate was remarkable for calcium phosphate crystals , that is the patient actually had a case of pseudo-gout .
Joint aspirate that was sent for culture has been negative to date and today is 6-4-92 .
The rheumatologist recommended checking a wrist xray to rule out calcification .
A wrist xray was obtained of the left wrist and it did show chondrocalcinosis thus confirming the diagnosis of pseudo-gout .
The patient &apos;s pseudogout was treated with Colchicine 0.6 mg. po q. 3 hours and he received nine such doses over a time span of about 42 hours with some relief of his symptoms .
He is being discharged on Colchicine 0.6 mg. PO t.i.d. as an acute measure for his pseudo-gout and that prescription will last until he sees Dr. Blood in follow up this coming Tuesday .
Today , on 6-4-92 , the patient has no new complaint .
Yesterday , on 6-3-92 , his prothrombin time was just a bit over 16 , between 16 and 17 and consequently his heparin was discontinued .
Today his prothrombin time is 16.7 and it looks like 5 mg. of Coumadin per day is going to be a stable dose for him .
Consequently , he is ready for discharge today .
The only other thing of note is that secondary to his anticoagulation with Coumadin his Ecotrin has been discontinued .
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE :
Isordil 10 mg. PO t.i.d.
Ditropan 5 mg. po q.i.d.
Cimetidine 400 mg. PO b.i.d.
Omeprazole 20 mg. PO b.i.d.
Colchicine 0.6 mg. PO t.i.d.
Percocet 1 tablet po q. 4 to 6 hours prn and Coumadin 5 mg. po q.day .
DISPOSITION :
The patient is being discharged to home today 9-1-25 .
His plans for follow up include a return to the Maza Alllarow Healthcare Surgery Clinic on 6-21-92 , that is two and a half weeks from the day of discharge ( 6-4-92 ) .
He is to see his primary medical doctor , Dr. Telshey Swatlleebtik in Ki Ave , Sapo on Tuesday , June 7 , 1992 , that is this coming Tuesday .
It has been a pleasure serving Mr. Flytheleungfyfe and taking care of him .
He is a very pleasant gentleman and it has also been a pleasure to deal with his primary medical doctor , Dr. Blood who is very accessible .
TOMEDANKELL FLOWAYLES , M.D.
TR :
ag / bmot
DD :
6-4-92
TD :
06/07/92
CC :
DR. TOMEDANKELL FLOWAYLES DR. TELSHEY SWATLLEEBTIK , Bihi
