851842962
FIH
6185944
23763/4988
052710
9/14/1993 12:00:00 AM
LEFT FEMORAL NECK FRACTURE .
Unsigned
DIS
Report Status :
Unsigned
ADMISSION DATE :
9-14-93
DISCHARGE DATE :
9-26-93
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS :
LEFT FEMORAL NECK FRACTURE .
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient is an 80 year old white female from Roarl who has been recently followed by Dr. Nygarthxi Anoun of Noughwell Entanbon Health , phone no. 937-392-3033 .
The patient apparently sustained a fall on 9/14/93 , while she was taking out her garbage .
The patient fell onto her left side , on trying to climb one step .
The patient attempted to rise to a standing position , but again fell onto her left lower extremity .
She experienced excruciating pain .
The patient was taken to Noughwell Entanbon Health where she was evaluated by Dr. Anoun in the emergency room .
Plain films of the left hip revealed a left femoral neck fracture .
Workup also revealed a fracture of the left ninth rib .
The patient was transferred to the Fairm of Ijordcompmac Hospital via ambulance at the family &apos;s request , for further workup and definitive care .
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY :
Significant for hypertension , and peptic ulcer disease .
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY :
Significant for [ 1 ] status post cholecystectomy .
[ 2 ] status post appendectomy ,
[ 3 ] status post carpal tunnel release in the left wrist .
[ 4 ] status post hysterectomy .
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION :
Inderal 20 mg. p.o. t.i.d. and Prilosec 20 mg. p.o. q.d.
ALLERGIES :
no known drug allergies .
SOCIAL HISTORY :
The patient is an 80 year old female who lives alone in Li .
She is a recent widow .
She does not consume alcohol , nor does she smoke .
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION :
In general , the patient was a pleasant elderly woman , somewhat depressed in affect .
She was resting supine with her left lower extremity shortened and externally rotated .
The blood pressure was 118/76 and heart rate was 96 .
HEENT exam revealed the patient to be normocephalic , atraumatic .
The pupils equal , round , reactive to light .
The neck was supple , with no thyromegaly .
There was no jugular venous distention or carotid bruits noted .
The lungs were clear to auscultation .
The heart exam revealed a regular rate and rhythm .
The abdomen was soft and nontender and nondistended , with normoactive bowel sounds .
Exam of the left lower extremity revealed evidence of degenerative joint disease .
She was unable to move her left leg due to severe pain in the left groin and hip region .
She had sensation intact to light touch and pinprick throughout the L1 through S1 distribution .
The motor exam was 5/5 in strength of the EHL , FHL , tibialis anterior .
The right lower extremity was unremarkable .
Both upper extremities had full range of motion .
Dorsalis and posterior tibial artery pulses were 2+ bilaterally .
LABORATORY DATA :
hematocrit 43.4 , white blood count 17.2 , platelet count 216,000 .
Electrolytes were within normal limits .
PT and PTT were 9.6 and 28.4 respectively .
A chest xray was performed and returned clear .
An EKG revealed an old anteroseptal MI , but no acute ischemia .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
The patient was admitted to the Orthopedic Service for treatment of a nondisplaced fracture of the left femoral neck .
She consented to hemiarthroplasty of her left hip .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
The patient was admitted to the Fairm of Ijordcompmac Hospital Orthopedic Service on 9/14/93 .
The patient was brought to the Operating Room on 9/15/93 at which time she underwent a left bipolar hemiarthroplasty .
The estimated blood loss was 300 cc .
Postoperatively the patient was noted to have tolerated the procedure well .
The postop hematocrit was 40 .
She was started on Coumadin for deep venous thrombosis prophylaxis .
She was administered 48 hours of i.v. antibiotics .
Over the next several hospital days , the patient continued to do well .
By postoperative day # 2 the patient complained of some mild abdominal discomfort .
She was alert and oriented .
Her maximal temperature was 100.4 .
Her lungs were clear and her abdomen was soft and nontender .
She remained neurovascularly intact in her left lower extremity .
Her hematocrit at this time was 35.4 .
Her hemovac drains were discontinued .
Her dressing was changed at this time and the wound was noted to be clean with mild serous drainage .
By postop day # 3 , the patient &apos;s maximal temperature was 100.2 , vital signs were stable .
Her hematocrit at this time was 30.1 .
Her sodium was 133 .
She remained neurovascularly intact in her left lower extremity .
The physical therapy service was consulted and she was started on weight bearing as tolerated , transfers from bed to chair and gait training as tolerated .
By postoperative day # 4 , the patient &apos;s gastric distress symptoms resolved .
She was tolerating a moderate p.o. intake .
Her maximal temperature was 99 degrees .
The patient was evaluated by the Psychiatry Service for depression .
It was their impression that the patient was suffering from a major depression and subsequently prescribed Dexamphetamine 2.5 mg p.o. q. A.M. which they slowly advanced to 5 mg. p.o. q. A.M. as tolerated .
They also prescribed 0.5 mg. p.o. q. H.S. to help the patient sleep at night .
The patient &apos;s wound remained clean and dry at this time .
She was able to stand with the assistance of physical therapy and the use of a walker .
On the evening of 9/21/93 , the patient was noted to have developed significant confusion .
She was disoriented as to place and time .
Her temperature was 99 , and vital signs were stable .
Her lungs were clear and heart continued to reveal a regular rate and rhythm .
Her wound remained benign .
White blood count was 19.9 , and her hematocrit was 35.8 .
She was therapeutic on Coumadin at this time with a PT of 16.3 .
The urinalysis revealed positive white blood cells with 20-50 white cells per hpf .
The urine culture subsequently returned positive for E. coli .
The patient was taken off all of her bowel medications and sleeping medications .
She was maintained only on her Prilosec and Propranolol .
A blood gas on room air revealed a p02 of 70% with a pH of 7.52 , and a bicarb of 36 .
Sodium was 135 and potassium was 4.0 .
A chest xray revealed clear lung fields and a normal heart size .
An electrocardiogram revealed normal sinus rhythm with a rate of 90 , and no ischemic changes when compared to her preop EKG .
The patient was started on two liters of oxygen by nasal prong .
Through the course of the next 24 hours , the patient became more oriented and less anxious .
She remained essentially afebrile .
The vital signs remained stable and her wound remained benign .
The patient was started on Bactrim for e coli urinary tract infection .
She was prescribed a 5-7 day course of Bactrim .
On postoperative day 8 the patient was alert and oriented x 3 .
She was transferring from bed to chair with the use of a walker and taking a few steps with the assistance of physical therapy .
Her hematocrit was 30.9 and her electrolytes were within normal limits .
On postoperative day # 10 the patient underwent noninvasive vascular studies by ultrasound of her lower extremities .
These returned negative for deep venous thrombosis .
She was accepted for transfer to the Kingganmonttri- Medical Center in Gocapeque , Maryland , as this was in close proximity to the rest of her family .
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE :
Bactrim DS one p.o. b.i.d. , to end on 9/28/93 .
Prilosec 20 mg. p.o. q.d. Propranolol 20 mg. p.o. t.i.d. Darvocet one to two p.o. q. 4 hrs. p.r.n. Coumadin q.h.s. , to keep the patient &apos;s PT between 15 and 16 , for a total of two more weeks .
Dexamphetamine 2.5 mg. p.o. q. A.M. for depression .
The patient &apos;s staples should be removed on 9/29/93 .
She has been instructed to follow up with Dr. Li Rhalttland in approximately four to six weeks time .
Current weight bearing status is weight bearing as tolerated with dislocation precautions applied to her left hip .
She is discharged in stable condition to the rehabilitation facility .
There were no complications during this admission .
LENNI BREUTZOLN , M.D.
TR :
fe / bmot
DD :
9-25-93
TD :
09/25/93
CC :
LI RHALTTLAND , M.D.
