857888116
CTMC
36320247
6680133
New Years Day 12:00:00 AM
LEUKEMIA , PNUEMOIA , BONE MARROW TRANSPLANT
Signed
DIS
Admission Date :
New Years Day
Report Status :
Signed
Discharge Date :
01/10/2005
ATTENDING :
SWATLLEEBTIK , TELSHEY MD , PHD
IDENTIFICATION :
Mr. Kotefyfe is a 65-year-old man with a history of myelodysplastic syndrome ( acute myelogenous leukemia ) who presents 20 days status post a nonmyeloablative peripheral blood stem cell transplant and is admitted for fatigue , neutropenia , and an abnormal chest x-ray .
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
In January 2002 , the patient was found to be anemic .
He was monitored closely and started on folic acid .
In August 2002 , a bone marrow biopsy showed MDS with a 12p abnormality in 14/24 metaphases .
He was treated with 5-azacytidine due to increasing number of blasts .
After four treatment cycles , his marrow remained hypercellular with persistent low levels of blasts .
In September 2004 , the patient converted to AML with Philadelphia chromosome 9:12 and received induction chemotherapy and recovered slowly with blasts .
In November 2005 , a bone marrow biopsy showed 80% cellularity and 40% of the intratrabecular space was composed of AML cells .
Hydrea was started due to splenic pain .
The patient was admitted on December 5 , 2005 for many &quot; peripheral blood stem cell transplants . &quot;
This course was without major complications .
Since his discharge from the hospital one week ago , he had twin graft to stem cells .
He has had only a few polys on his white blood cell differential .
He has also had persistent blasts of 1 to 2% .
The patient was taken off GMCSF because of splenic pain and this pain improved .
He has not been febrile .
He has had transfusions on several occasions .
His white blood cell count and platelet count have been noted to be steadily rising over the past week .
He actually looked a little bit better today than he had previously .
For the past three days , he has been complaining of pain in his shoulder with motion and also a little bit of pain in his left lower quadrant .
A chest x-ray obtained demonstrated a right lobe infiltrate , which was possibly fungal in etiology and the patient has been admitted for further evaluation and treatment .
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY :
AML , coronary artery disease status post myocardial infarction in 1989 with stent placement , hypertension , hyperlipidemia , and scrofula in a lymph node .
ALLERGIES :
Penicillin , which causes a rash .
ADMISSION MEDICATIONS :
Atenolol 25 mg daily , folic acid , Prilosec 40 mg daily , tacrolimus 2 mg q.a.m. , 1 mg q.p.m. , fluconazole ( started five days prior to admission to treat thrush ) , acyclovir 400 mg t.i.d. , Mepron 750 mg b.i.d. , Levaquin 500 mg daily , oxycodone 5 to 10 mg q.3h. p.r.n. for pain , and doxazosin .
SOCIAL HISTORY :
The patient is a photographer .
He is engaged and lives with his fiancee .
He does not smoke , drink alcohol or use illicit drugs .
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS :
The patient reports five days of right upper extremity / axillary and posterior shoulder pain , which he describes as shooting in nature .
The patient denies any radiation of pain to the right upper extremity and denies any weakness in the right upper extremity .
He has had no fevers or chills .
No dysuria .
No congestion .
He reports a minimal rare dry cough , which dates back to November 27th , which he thinks is related to GERD .
He does have left upper quadrant pain , which is consistent with his previously known splenic pain .
He also reports rhinorrhea with clear discharge .
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION :
Temperature 97.6 , pulse rate 60 , blood pressure 138/80 , respiratory rate 20 , oxygen saturation 96% on room air .
Admission weight 77.6 kilograms .
In general , the patient is described as tired appearing , however , comfortable , and in no acute distress .
HEENT :
Oropharynx is dry .
He has no lesions or bleeding .
Cardiovascular :
Regular rate and rhythm .
Pulmonary :
Crackles at the bases and decreased breath sounds .
GI :
Abdomen is soft .
He has tenderness in the left upper quadrant and he is without hepatosplenomegaly .
Derm is without rash .
Neuro :
Cranial nerves II through XII are intact .
He has a nonfocal exam .
Extremities are without edema .
Access :
He has a left-sided double-lumen Hickman , which is nontender and without induration .
ADMISSION STUDIES :
Sodium 135 , potassium 4.6 , chloride 99 , CO2 28 , BUN 13 , creatinine 0.8 , glucose 233 , ALT 20 , AST of 27 , LDH 154 , alkaline phosphatase 66 , T bili 0.4 , calcium 8.1 , and magnesium 1.1 .
White blood cell count 3.8 with 3% polys , 3% blasts , 7% lymphs , 87% monocytes .
Hematocrit 30 and platelets 23,000 .
Chest x-ray revealed a right upper infiltrate .
Chest CAT scan was notable for right upper lobe consolidation and right pleural effusion .
All findings consistent with pneumonia .
HOSPITALIZATION COURSE :
Mr. Lyfranklapalm Kote is a 65-year-old man with a history of myelodysplastic syndrome that could vary to acute myelogenous leukemia who is status post a nonmyeloablative allogenic transplants via protocol of 27-518 , the GVAX study , who was readmitted for right upper lobe infiltrate .
The remainder of the dictation will be divided by system :
1. Oncology :
The patient is status post nonmyeloablative &quot; many allogenic bone marrow transplant on 12/12/04 .
Neutrophils have yet twin graft , GMCSF was stopped in a setting of increased splenic pain .
Throughout this admission , the patient has had a climbing level of blasts ( 44% on the day of discharge ) consistent with recurrent leukemic disease .
All immunosuppressants were discontinued except for tacrolimus .
Tacrolimus was continued at a reduced dose to 0.5 mg daily , so that the patient could remain on the GVAX study .
2. ID / Pulmonary :
Admission CAT scans and x-rays of the chest were notable for right upper lobe infiltrate .
The patient was afebrile upon admission and remained afebrile throughout his course .
Infectious Disease and Pulmonary Services were actively involved during this admission .
Both Consultant Services felt the initial imaging was consistent with focal fungal ( question Aspergillus or Mucor ) infiltrates .
He was started empirically .
He was started empirically on Voriconazole .
Given the patient &apos;s history of scrofula , there was mild concern for possible active tuberculosis .
The patient ruled out for TB by serial sputum induction studies .
A bronchoscopy was performed .
Washings , cultures , and viral studies were negative or remained no growth to date .
CMV viral loads were all negative .
Serum galactomannan level on 01/01 was negative .
There was consideration to do a VAT procedure to obtain his definitive diagnosis , but however , in the presence of recurrent leukemic disease , the patient continued to decline this option .
Inpatient antibiotic and antiviral treatment included prophylactic acyclovir and Mepron per protocol , empiric Levaquin , empiric caspofungin , and empiric fluconazole .
The patient does have thrush .
3. Hematology :
The patient had no active bleeding during this admission .
The patient was given red blood cells and platelets to maintain his hematocrit above 26 and his platelet count above 10,000 .
4. Cardiovascular :
The patient remained hemodynamically stable throughout this admission .
He had one brief episode of chest pain that was spontaneously resolved .
He ruled out for myocardial infarction by serial enzymes and no further workup was pursued .
5. Musculoskeletal :
The patient had a right middle finger pain , which developed during this admission without any preceding trauma .
This pain was felt to be due to arthritis .
Plain film x-rays revealed no bony injury .
6. Psych :
Celexa 20 mg daily was started this admission for treatment for depression .
FINAL DIAGNOSES :
1. Acute myelogenous leukemia .
2. Right upper lobe infiltrate , not otherwise specified , possibly infectious / fungus versus recurrence of leukemic disease .
DISCHARGE PLAN :
The patient was discharged to home with AH Services .
OUTPATIENT FOLLOWUP :
The patient is scheduled to see Dr. Kama Scpra who will be covering for Dr. Telshey Swatlleebtik on January 14 , 2005 at 9 a.m.
The patient also has appointments on that day for blood draws and for infusions if necessary .
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS :
Acyclovir 400 mg t.i.d. , atenolol 25 mg daily , Peridex 15 mL b.i.d. , Colace 100 mg b.i.d. , folic acid 1 mg daily , nystatin suspension 5 cc q.i.d. , oxycodone 5 to 10 mg q.4h. p.r.n. for pain , Eucerin lotion apply topically q.8h. to dry skin , senna two tablets q.12h. p.r.n. for constipation , multivitamin 1 tablet daily , doxazosin 1 mg daily , tacrolimus 0.5 mg daily , Mepron 750 mg b.i.d. , levofloxacin 500 mg daily , Celexa 20 mg daily , voriconazole 300 mg q.12h. , Prilosec 40 mg daily , and magnesium oxide 400 mg t.i.d.
DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS :
The patient was advised to take his medications and keep his appointment as instructed .
In addition , he was told to call his doctor if he had any fevers , chills , severe headache , lightheadedness , dizziness , cold or flu like symptoms , cough , shortness of breath , chest discomfort , stomach ache , nausea , vomiting , persistent loose bowel movements , pain or difficulty with his urination , bleeding , skin rash or if he is unable to take his medication for any reason .
eScription document :
5-1834341 TM
CC :
Telshey Swatlleebtik Venbonlea Health Sterlfrei
CC :
Telshey Swatlleebtik MD , PHD New Mexico
Dicatated By :
KOTERUDES , CONRELLIE
Attending :
SWATLLEEBTIK , TELSHEY Dictation ID 5647889
D :
01/30/05
T :
01/30/05
