867186785 WGH
8129799
184673
374129
2/10/1998 12:00:00 AM
PERFORATED APPENDICITIS .
Unsigned
DIS
Report Status :
Unsigned
Please do not go above this box important format codes are contained .
DISCHARGE SUMMARY KEX60BK
DISCHARGE SUMMARY
NAME :
AUSSTONGE , LILU
UNIT NUMBER :
940-84-03
ADMISSION DATE :
02/10/1998
DISCHARGE DATE :
02/27/1998
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS :
Perforated appendicitis .
ASSOCIATED DIAGNOSES :
Right lower lobe pneumonia with associated parapneumonic effusion , supraventricular tachycardia .
PRINCIPAL PROCEDURE :
Appendectomy .
OTHER PROCEDURES :
CT scan of chest and abdomen .
Right chest tube placement .
Percutaneous drainage of loculated right chest fluid collection .
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient is a 15 year old female who came in complaining of cramping abdominal pain on her right side since 2/4/98 .
The patient reports that the pain began in the right lower quadrant / suprapubic region and spread to the entire right side and left lower quadrant .
She reported increased intensity of pain over the 24 hours prior to admission with sharper pain in the right side .
The patient reported vomiting and has only been able to take down water .
Her last bowel movement was 24 hours prior to admission .
Her last menstrual period was 1/11/98 with a normal 28-day cycle and no significant gynecologic history .
There were no urinary tract infection symptoms .
She denied any history of sweats or chills .
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY :
None .
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY :
None .
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION :
None .
ALLERGIES :
There are no known drug allergies .
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION :
Revealed a well developed , well nourished female in no apparent distress .
The temperature was 101.3 .
The rest of her vital signs were stable .
On head , ears , eyes , nose , and throat examination , the head was normocephalic / atraumatic .
The pupils were equal , round , and reactive to light and accommodation .
The oral mucosa was normal .
The chest was clear to auscultation bilaterally .
There were no wheezes , rales , or rhonchi .
The cardiac examination showed a regular rate and rhythm , normal S1 and S2 , no murmurs , rubs , or gallops .
The abdomen was soft and nondistended with hypoactive bowel sounds .
There was moderate tenderness in the right lower quadrant with mild tenderness in the right upper quadrant and left lower quadrant .
There were no palpable masses .
There was localized rebound to the right lower quadrant .
There was no guarding .
There was a psoas sign .
LABORATORY DATA :
On admission the white blood cell count was 5.4 , hematocrit 43.4 , platelets 194,000 .
The electrolytes were within normal limits .
The liver function tests were within normal limits .
Abdominal x-ray showed air throughout , no dilated loops , no air fluid levels .
An appendiceal CT scan was performed and showed appendicitis with an appendicolith with extensive inflammatory changes in the cecal region .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
In summary , this was a 15 year old female with a history of right sided abdominal pain for five days with increased severity over the last 24 hours with an appendiceal CT showing appendicitis with extensive inflammatory changes .
The patient was admitted and started on triple antibiotics and ampicillin , gentamicin , and Flagyl .
She was scheduled for the operating room for an appendectomy .
The patient was taken to the operating room on the morning of 2/10/98 , at which time a laparoscopic appendectomy was attempted and then had to be converted to an open appendectomy .
The patient had perforated appendicitis with pus in the abdomen and a large amount of pericecal inflammation .
The wound was packed with wicks and the patient was then sent to the post anesthesia care unit and then the floor .
Postoperatively , the patient was kept NPO with a nasogastric tube and on intravenous fluids and continued on triple antibiotics with ampicillin , gentamicin , and Flagyl .
She had temperature spikes postoperatively .
The nasogastric tube was discontinued on 2/11 , which was postoperative day 1 .
The patient was started on sips of clears on postoperative day 2 .
Cultures from the operating room grew multiple organisms .
The patient was continued on triple antibiotics .
She continued with temperature spikes through postoperative day 3 .
She continued to have fever spikes on postoperative day 5 and an abdominal pelvic CT scan was obtained , which showed no intra-abdominal abscesses or fluid collections , but did show a right lower lobe infiltrate with atelectasis and bilateral effusions , with the right much larger than the left .
An infectious disease consult was obtained and the antibiotics were switched from tripe to intravenous Timentin .
The patient was started on vigorous chest physical therapy and ambulation was encouraged .
She had the Jackson-Pratt drain pulled on 2/17 .
The patient had low grade fevers with the switch of antibiotics until 2/17 , which was postoperative day 7 , when she had a temperature spike to 102.8 degrees .
She had a temperature spike to 102.5 degrees on postoperative day 8 .
The antibiotics were continued and a chest x-ray and CBC were obtained on postoperative day 9 .
The chest x-ray showed a large right sided pleural effusion with right sided infiltrate which did not layer out on a right decubitus film .
The patient was taken to the operating room where a flexible bronchoscopy was performed and a chest tube was placed in the right chest .
500 cc of serosanguineous fluid were drained .
No pus was seen .
The chest tube was maintained on suction and postoperatively the patient was continued on Timentin .
Ambulation and central spirometry and deep breathing exercises were all strongly encouraged .
The patient continued to have low grade fevers and had a temperature spike of 102.6 degrees on 2/21/98 , which was postoperative day 11 .
She remained without abdominal pain or any abdominal symptoms .
She was tolerating a regular diet and was ambulating well .
A fever work up was obtained for the temperature spike , including stool and blood cultures , which were negative , and a follow up chest x-ray .
The chest x-ray showed multiloculated pleural fluid with air fluid levels in the right chest .
CT scan of the chest and abdomen was obtained in the evening on 2/21 , postoperative day 11 .
A right chest catheter was placed percutaneously by interventional radiology to drain the multiloculated fluid collection .
The patient was given urokinase injections through the catheter into the right chest q8h for three days , with the catheter placed to suction .
Post percutaneous catheter placement , the child had an increased heart rate into the range of 180s .
She was found to be in supraventricular tachycardia .
She was transferred to the Pediatric ICU , where she was chemically cardioverted with adenosine .
She responded well to the adenosine and was monitored in the PICU and then transferred back to the floor that evening on continuous cardiac monitor .
The patient did well after the episode of supraventricular tachycardia and had no further episodes of supraventricular tachycardia after the episode on the night of 2/22/98 .
A cardiology consult was obtained .
An echocardiogram was done , which was within normal limits .
An electrocardiogram was done , which showed no signs of pulmonary embolus .
The patient was started on atenolol , per cardiology , and maintained on this while she would be in pain or have increased temperatures .
The patient had lower extremity noninvasive scans to rule out deep venous thrombosis .
These scans were negative for deep venous thrombosis .
The patient had a temperature spike to 100.7 on postoperative day 13 .
She was eating well and having no abdominal pain and ambulating well .
She continued to run low grade fevers .
She was continued on Timentin .
She had minimal drainage out of her chest tube and out of the right percutaneous catheter .
A three-day course of urokinase treatments was finished on Monday , 2/26 , and the right chest catheter was removed .
A chest x-ray post removal showed no pneumothorax and a small right pleural effusion with persistent right lower lobe infiltrate .
The patient continued to have low grade fevers .
She was without any pain , nausea or vomiting .
She was tolerating a regular diet and ambulating well .
The right chest tube was discontinued on postoperative day 17 , 2/27/98 .
A PICC line was placed for home antibiotics .
A chest x-ray was obtained which showed good placement of the PICC line and showed right lower lobe infiltrate with pleural thickening , but no effusion and no pneumothorax .
The patient was then discharged home with MH service for two weeks of intravenous Timentin .
She is to be continued on atenolol for two weeks .
She is to follow up with Dr. Va Lardesprableyl .
CONDITION ON DISCHARGE :
Stable .
DOCTOR &apos;S DISCHARGE ORDERS :
Timentin 3.1 grams intravenously q6h x two weeks , atenolol 25 mg po qd x two weeks , Percocet 1 to 2 tablets po q4h prn pain , PICC line care with heparinized saline flushes .
The patient is to follow up with Dr. Va Lardesprableyl in two weeks .
She is to obtain a chest x-ray prior to her follow up appointment .
The patient is to follow up with cardiology in one month .
AYAN MORTON , M.D.
TR :
pb
DD :
02/27/1998
TD :
03/06/1998 10:26 A
cc :
VA LOLAVEA MASS , M.D.
