867290496
CTMC
50889296
765801
4/2/1991 12:00:00 AM
Discharge Summary
Unsigned
DIS
Admission Date :
04/02/1991
Report Status :
Unsigned
Discharge Date :
04/09/1991
CHIEF COMPLAINT :
EPIGLOTTITIS .
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
This is an 87 year old white female who is otherwise healthy by history and presented with a several day history of upper respiratory infection .
Of note , the patient does not smoke and does not drink .
She was seen by her local internist after having several days of blood-tinged sputum which she was coughing up and some mild throat discomfort .
She did not complain of significant pain and was able to tolerate p.o.s.
She denied any respiratory distress although her family thought she may have had some labored breathing at one point .
She was seen by her local physician who was concerned that she may have a malignancy secondary to the history of hemoptysis and throat discomfort .
He recommended that she see a local otolaryngologist .
Examination by the local otolaryngologist appareantly revealed significant swelling in the epiglottic area although we had no true record of what was seen .
There was also a question of a carcinomatous lesion on the left side of the epiglottis .
Apparently the findings were significant enough to cause this otolaryngologist to recommend that the family bring the patient emergently to Ez Ephtro Health Center where she be admitted for steroids and antibiotics and apparently the question of a tracheostomy was raised .
The patient &apos;s granddaughter , however , works at Retelk County Medical Center and therefore the family elected to bring the patient home and then bring her to Retelk County Medical Center .
She presented to the Emergency Room with some throat discomfort , some mild hoarseness , which she said had been progressing over the last few days .
She was sitting straight upright although was not having any respiratory distress .
She did report a lot of salive in the back of her throat .
She was febrile to 101.7 .
ENT consult was obtained .
A lateral neck film revealed significant swelling of the epiglottis .
ENT examination was then to be performed .
Chest x-ray showed significant kiphosis but otherwise no significant lesions at all .
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY :
Negative .
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY :
Negative .
MEDICATIONS ON ADMIT :
None .
ALLERGIES :
None .
Smoking none .
FAMILY HISTORY :
Negative .
Alcohol none .
SOCIAL HISTORY :
Lives in an old age facility but is quite active and quite independent .
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION :
The patient was sitting upright and was not drooling and was able to swallow her secretions although she did have a very wet voice which got progressively more hoarse during the examination .
She had no respiratory distress but did choose to sit in an upright position .
Her ear examination was normal .
Nasal examination was normal .
Oral cavity was normal .
Neck :
Revealed fullness in the submental and suprahyoid regions with mild tenderness which was consistent with edema of the soft tissues without significant mass .
Neck :
Otherwise normal and the trachea was midline .
Hypopharyngeal examiantion revealed a severely edematous , yellowish-white epiglottis with significantly edematous base of tongue which had marked watery edema .
The left pyriform was obliterated by edema .
The right pyriform was narrowed by edema .
The epiglottis was so edematous that is was pushed back posteriorly and abutted the posterior oropharynx completely obscuring the larynx .
The patient had no stridor and it was clear that she must be breathing around the epiglottis .
There was blood oozing out from the left lateral epiglottis at the region consistent with its base although this was unclear for identification secondary to edema and it was possible that she may have had a lesion in this area .
Lungs :
Clear .
Heart :
Regular rate and rhythm .
S1 and S2 , no murmurs , rubs or gallops .
Abdomen :
Soft , nontender , positive bowel sounds , no hepatosplenomegaly , no bruits .
No masses .
Extremities :
Normal .
Back :
Showed significant thoracic kiphosis .
LABORATORY EXAMINATION :
Revealed a WBC count of 11.6 , H and H of 10.7 and 31.7 , platelet count of 268 , differential 94 polys , 0 bands , 5 lymphs , one mono .
As noted above , lateral neck film revealed marked edema of the epiglottis .
The chest x-ray showed signficant kiphosis with several areas of increased interstitial markings but otherwise negative .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
The patient was felt to have epiglottitis , possibly secondary to a malignancy , especially in her age group .
She was started on IV Ceftriaxone two grams and was given humidification .
Due to the marked amount of edema , it was felt that she should go the Operating Room emergently for elective intubation .
She was taken to the Operating Room at approximately 2:00 a.m. which was approximately one hour after being evaluated by ENT and was intubated awake over a fiberoptic bronchoscope through the left nares with nasal anesthetic only with a #6 endotracheal tube .
The patient was sedated .
Direct laryngoscopy was performed but this revealed only a large amount of base of tongue edema with minimally visible epiglottis which was also significantly edematous and no distinct mass or lesion could be noted .
She was transferred to the SICU where she was kept sedated and was given Ceftriaxone one gram q. 12 h. as well as IV steroids for the first 24 hours consisting of Decadron 8 mg q. 8 h. X 3 doses in addition to 10 mg that she received in the Emergency Room on the way down to the Operating Room .
Her initial hospital course while intubated was significant for an episode of atrial fibrillation which she went into in the Operating Room .
At the end of the case she had had a central line placed also for frequent blood draws at the request of the SICU house office .
Her episode of atrial fibrillation as we planned to take her from the Operating Room after both the intubation and central line placement had been completed .
She had no trouble with blood pressure with this atrial fibrillation with rates going up to 150 .
She was given a dose of Digoxin but broke spontaneously approximately two minutes after the Digoxin was given .
EKG and enzymes were obtained and showed the first degree AV block that she had had on her preoperative EKG but no other findings at all .
She continued in normal sinus rhythm and was transferred to the ICU where she was monitored .
Her blood gases and O2 saturations correlated well and we used O2 saturations to follow her as well as venous gases and she continued to maintain good O2 saturation .
She was kept ventilated because she was kept sedated .
She went into an SVT the afternoon after intubation and a decision was made to Digitalize her , keeping her level between approximately .6 and 1 .
She continued in sinus rhythm after this episode of SVT and again had no problems with her blood pressure during that .
Her edema decreased over the next two days and repeat fiberoptic examination on both 4/3 and 4/4 revealed decreasing edema .
On 4/5/91 in the ICU under controlled conditions , she was electively extubated and had no problems .
She was kept on Ceftriaxone but no further steroids were given .
Examination at that time revealed question of a lesion at the left lateral glossoepiglottic fold .
Otherwise her examination was normal with good visualization of the larynx and significant decrease in size of the epiglottis .
Of note , during her first hospital day when she received steroids her blood sugars did increase significantly and therefore she was started on insulin .
Once the steroids were stopped , the insulin was able to be stopped .
Tube feedings were started on 4/3/91 and the NG tube was discontinued on 4/5/91 prior to extubation to give a better look at the epiglottis prior to extubating her .
After extubation she was watched in the ICU for 24 hours and she did well except for some episodes of confusion happening the night of extubation and also the next morning .
Again , MI was ruled out and metabolic tests were within normal limits .
O2 saturations looked good .
It was felt that this was a mild episode of ICU psychosis .
She was followed on the regular floor 24 hours after extubation and had no further problems with her airway .
She was maintained on Ceftriaxone and then switched to Augmentin and remained afebrile .
Her white counts came down .
Blood cultures which had been drawn at the time of intubation were negative .
She had a geriatric consult due to her confusion and they suggested as we had already done to stop all sedatives and sleeping medications .
Cardiology was contacted and recommended that given her history she should be taken off all Digoxin and just watched and that her SVTs may have been just secondary to stress of intubation .
Unfortunately the episodes of atrial fibrillation and SVT were apparently not documented well enough in terms of EKG strips to aid Cardiology and therefore , they gave us an informal consult so that no formal consult will be found in this chart .
Nonetheless , their input was greatly appreciated and she was taken off of Digoxin and had no further problems with her heart .
Her mental status began to clear under the family &apos;s request .
DISPOSITION :
On 4/9/91 she was sent home on a week of Augmentin and will followup in the ENT Clinic .
Our plan will be to establish whether or not she truly had an epiglottic lesion .
She , of note , had no history of foreign body ingestion or any abrasion or trauma to this area .
If she does have a lesion , then we may entertain , given her age , the possibility of radiating this lesion as opposed to putting her through laryngectomy .
Discharge medications are Augmentin 500 mg t.i.d. X 7 days .
The patient is to followup in the ENT Clinic in approximately one week .
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS :
EPIGLOTTITIS , QUESTION SECONDARY TO EPIGLOTTIC MALIGNANCY .
RG556/4903 EENTO WORKS , M.D. NL6
D :
04/10/91
Batch :
5391
Report :
U5989C79
T :
04/10/91
Dicatated By :
SA JESCWIERST , M.D.
