894133108
FIH
8429895
37537/44bm
279017
02/04/1992 12:00:00 AM
Discharge Summary
Unsigned
DIS
Report Status :
Unsigned
ADMISSION DATE :
02/04/92
DISCHARGE DATE :
02/15/92
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient is a 68 year old female with squamous cell carcinoma of the tongue , T3 , N1 , M0 transferred from Cla Lip Operinlafo Hospital with a tracheoesophageal perforation , secondary to tracheostomy placement .
Planned procedure was composite resection with partial glossectomy , left mandibulectomy and left radical neck with reconstruction .
In preparation for procedure tracheostomy was performed with apparent posterior tracheal aspiration .
At the time of the operation , the patient had difficulty breathing and developed a distended abdomen .
Bilateral chest tubes were placed for pmeumothorax documented by chest X-ray .
A KUB revealed free intra-abdominal air .
Bronchoscopy revealed a 2 cm. posterior membraneous wall tracheal laceration .
Esophagoscopy was unremarkable .
The patient was given antibiotics and transferred to the Fairm of Ijordcompmac Hospital for tracheal reconstruction and evaluation of possible esophageal injury .
The injury occurred several hours prior to admission .
On arrival to the Fairm of Ijordcompmac Hospital she received Kefzol and Flagyl .
The patient was paralyzed at presentation .
The patient had been hemodynamically stable during the course of all of these events .
The patient was emergently taken to the operating room , ______________ of her iatrogenic tracheal and possible esophageal perforations .
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY :
Significant for a silent myocardial infarction in 1979 .
The patient has had no recent symptoms related to myocardial ischemia .
The patient currently takes no cardiac medications .
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY :
Notable for a total abdominal hysterectomy , bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy and an operation for treatment of peptic ulcers the type of operation is unknown .
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION :
Sectral 200 mg. PO q.d.
ALLERGIES :
The patient reports allergies to shellfish and contrast dye .
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION :
The patient was a paralyzed middle aged female .
She was afebrile and vital signs were stable .
The patient has a # 7 endotracheal tube in place and an open tracheostomy site .
The patient had bilateral equal breath sounds .
Bilateral chest tubes were present with no air leak .
The patient &apos;s abdomen was severely distended , no bowel sounds were present .
The patient had a chest X-ray revealing bilateral chest tubes with no residual pneumothorax .
The lungs were fully inflated .
LABORATORY DATA :
On admission were notable for a white blood count of 10.4 , hematocrit 36.4 .
The patient had an arterial blood gas of 100% , Fio2 254/34/7.40 .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
The patient was taken to the operating room for repair of a tracheal injury and revision of her tracheostomy .
She underwent flexible bronchoscopy and flexible esophagoscopy .
The surgery demonstrated a 5 cm. posterior tracheal laceration , no esophageal injury was present .
The patient had an uncomplicated postoperative course .
The patient returned to the operating room on 02/11 for a tracheostomy tube change , a flexible bronchoscopy and the placement of a G tube .
The surgery was notable for severe intra-abdominal adhesions .
The posterior repair of the trachea was intact with a fibrinous exudate along the suture line .
The patient tolerated the procedure well , without complications .
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE :
Bactrim one tab per G tube , Metoprolol 25 mg. per G tube b.i.d. , Nystatin 5 cc. swish and spit t.i.d , heparin 5,000 units subq. q8 hours , Tylenol 650 mg. per G tube or PR q4 hours PRN , albuterol .2 cc. per 2 cc. normal saline nebulizers q4 hours PRN .
Mucomist 2 ml. per 2 ml. normal saline nebulizers q4h PRN .
Racemic epinephrine .5 cc. per 2 cc. normal saline nebulizers q4h PRN , and oxycodone elixir 10 mg. per G tub q4h PRN .
CONDITION ON DISCHARGE :
Good .
DISPOSITION / PLAN ON DISCHARGE :
To the Valtawnprinceel Community Memorial Hospital for treatment of her tongue cancer .
TOYA NIQUE , M.D.
TR :
ml / bmot
DD :
02/16/92
TD :
02/19/92
CC :
