894281954
CTMC
03528277
385056
1/22/1997 12:00:00 AM
RESIDUAL SKULL BASE CHORDOMA
Signed
DIS
Admission Date :
01/22/1997
Report Status :
Signed
Discharge Date :
02/06/1997
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS :
CHORDOMA .
PROCEDURE :
1/22/97 Right suboccipital craniotomy with microresection of tumor with laminectomy .
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
Mr. Marker is a 60 year-old man presented with a two year history with right neck pain .
An initial CT scan was negative , however , eventually a scan in August , 1996 showed a right wedge skull base mass .
In September , 1997 he underwent cerebral angiography complicated by an embolic cerebrovascular accident which presented with confusion in an right homonymous hemianopsia .
He was taken to the Intensive Care Unit .
A follow-up MRI showed low attenuation lesions in both occipital lobes consistent with embolic stroke .
He was treated with aspirin .
November 19 , 1997 , he underwent a resection of a skull base chordoma and a lateral mandibulotomy with tracheostomy .
Postoperatively he had a right true vocal cord paralysis with evidence of aspiration and he therefore received Gelfoam insertion injection into the vocal cord and a PEG was preformed .
He was discharged home with at follow-up MRI and on December 25 , 1997 again revealed a large ill defined lobulated skull based mass with a mass effect on the medulla .
Now preoperatively he reports occasional sharp pains in his right jaw that last about five seconds then resolves as well as loss of his right peripheral vision , difficulty swallowing .
He is taking some liquids p.o. but also has G-tube feedings q.2h.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY :
Status post tonsillectomy , status post appendectomy , status post lumbar fusion remote .
DIET :
Jevity Plus one can q.12h. by G-tube , some liquids .
ALLERGIES :
The patient is allergic to Codeine which causes nausea and Morphine which causes swelling .
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION :
Aspirin discontinued in two weeks prior to admission .
SOCIAL HISTORY :
Denies use of alcohol and tobacco .
He is married and lives in Nebraska , works as a car dealer , has four grandchildren .
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION :
Vital signs :
Heart rate 64 , blood pressure 120/80 .
General :
This is a pleasant 60 year-old man whose distressed .
HEENT , normocephalic , atraumatic , well healed right jaw incision , slight swelling right jaw slightly tender to the touch , there is no erythema .
Lungs are clear to auscultation .
Heart regular rate and rhythm , no murmurs , gallops or rubs .
Abdomen G-tube intact , soft non-tender , active bowel sounds .
Neurological alert and oriented times three , speech is fluent although there is some difficulty of tongue movement .
Cranial nerves , right visual field deficit , decreased gag , tongue is atrophic and deviates to the right .
Strength five out of five bilateral upper and lower extremities .
Deep tendon reflexes 2+ symmetric , toes downgoing .
Cerebella intact .
Gait steady .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
This 60 year-old man with a right suboccipital chordoma status post prior resection was admitted and then underwent on Jan 22 , 1997 a right suboccipital craniotomy with microresection of tumor along with a laminectomy .
Postoperatively , he was taken to the Neurosurgical Intensive Care Unit where he remained intubated .
He was extubated on postoperative day number one .
His neurological examination remained unchanged with continued right tongue deviation and lack of gag reflex .
He was transferred to the floor on postoperative day number two and he was ambulating .
He was seen by Physical Therapy who noted that he had problems with balancing and he used a rolling walker .
He noticed some nose dripping on postoperative day number four however in the next several days there was no evidence of this cerebrospinal fluid leak as he denied any further nose dripping however he was placed on antibiotics to cover a possible cerebrospinal fluid leak .
On postoperative day number eight he again reported leaking from the right nostril .
He vomited once and had intermittent headaches .
A head CT was done to evaluate a possible hydrocephalus , no hydrocephalus was seen where there was an old infarct in the right frontal lobe white matter and the occipital region with a pseudomeningocele , status post resection of the right skull based tumor extending to the C2 level .
A lumbar drain was placed and for the next five days 50 cc was drained every eight hours .
A culture taken from the lumbar drain showed Staphylococcus aureus resistant to the Nafcillin which he was receiving and he was therefore placed on Vancomycin .
He was also receiving Ofloxacin for a presumed aspiration pneumonia and a Staphylococcus aureus from his cerebrospinal fluid was sensitive to both Vancomycin and Ofloxacin .
He was followed by the Speech Pathology Team who noted that he still had evidence of aspiration .
A video swallow was done which showed moderately severe oral pharyngeal dysphasia with premature spill over and laryngeal penetration with aspiration of some liquids .
Because of continuing complaints by Mr. Marker about nausea with his tube feedings and concern with his aspiration the G-tube feedings were not ideal .
He underwent a conversion of his gastrostomy tube to an transgastrojejunostomy tube by the Interventional Radiologist on Feb 04 , 1997 .
Prior to admission Mr. Marker had been taking one can of Jevity every two hours as a bolus .
After conversion to a jejunostomy tube one would normally use continuous feedings , however Mr. Marker did not want to use continuous feedings , he prefers the boluses which would not require him to be attached to a feeding tube .
It was explained to him that this can result in diarrhea but he has elected to continue bolus feedings .
His visiting nurse will be instructed to observe for diarrhea and if problems develop a home jejunostomy feeding tube apparatus will be obtained .
His lumbar drain was removed after five days .
He was observed overnight and there is no current evidence of cerebrospinal fluid leak .
He is therefore being discharged on postoperative day number fifteen .
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE :
1) Ofloxacin 400 mg p.o. b.i.d. for one week .
2) Jevity Plus one can q.2h.
He will have visiting nurse and home Physical Therapy services .
FOLLOW-UP :
Follow-up will be with Dr. Sick in one weeks time .
He will needed a follow-up CT or MRI for the pseudomeningocele .
ADDENDUM
Mr. Marker will be restarted on his preoperative Aspirin as he is now far enough out from his surgery .
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE :
1) Aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d.
2) Ofloxacin 400 mg p.o. b.i.d. times seven days .
Dictated By :
STISIE H. TIKFREIERMDREPS , M.D. BA87
Attending :
BESTI T. MARKER , M.D. PH.D CM91 MJ826/1907
Batch :
44195
Index No. TZPH6E32B8
D :
02/06/97
T :
02/08/97
