909677552
CTMC
86965002
1207026
3/13/2004 12:00:00 AM
ANEMIA , HYPOGLYCEMIA
Signed
DIS
Admission Date :
03/13/2004
Report Status :
Signed
Discharge Date :
03/21/2004
ATTENDING :
SALENE MARGGAY NORFJESCSTOOKS MD
ADMISSION DIAGNOSIS :
Hypoglycemia leading to question seizure , non ST-elevation MI , GI bleed , anemia .
CHIEF COMPLAINT :
Question seizure / loss of consciousness with hypoglycemia , fingerstick blood sugar of 24 .
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
An 82-year-old male with a history of CAD status post CABG , CVA status post CEA , diabetes mellitus , hypertension , GI bleeding , CHF with an EF of 35% , left lower lobe pneumonia on admission on 01/22/04 - 01/31/2004 , PVD and bladder cancer .
The patient recently DC&apos;d to home from Erdiconre Hospital on 02/20/2004 .
The patient reports feeling increasingly weak times several days and on the morning of admission needed assistance to go to the bathroom where he had a melanotic stool .
Of note , the patient has had melena times months with multiple blood transfusions at the Usoak Rinix Hospital .
The patient , after having his melanotic stool , had a question seizure-like activity with question loss of consciousness .
EMS was called and found the patient &apos;s fingerstick blood sugar to be 24 .
The patient at that time had slurred speech with altered mental status .
The patient at the site was given 1 amp of D50 .
Fingerstick blood sugar on repeat was 190 .
The patient was transferred to the ED .
Of note , in the Genearocktemp Ry Health ED the patient was noted to have a hematocrit of 23.7 down from low 30s , a troponin of 5.8 , and an EKG with afib showing peak T-waves .
At that time the patient was thought to have non ST elevation MI ; however , family declined aggressive cardiac intervention and opted for medical management only .
Thus , the patient was admitted to the Medical Service for GI workup including possibly EGD .
Of note , the patient had a previously scheduled EGD for 03/17 .
HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEM :
1. Cardiovascular :
Ischemia :
The patient is status post a non ST elevation MI , a troponin peaked at 22 likely secondary to dehydration and presentation of acute renal failure .
The patient was managed on a beta blocker .
Aspirin was held second to his concurrent GI bleed .
Pump :
The patient was initially hydrated on exam ; however , the patient became euvolemic after transfusion of blood and _____ IV fluids .
Of note , the patient was transfused for a total of 4 units of packed red blood cells during this admission .
Lasix was given after each unit of packed red blood cells .
Repeat echo revealed an EF of 45-50% with inferior and posterior basal hypokinesis .
Overall , the patient had preserved LV function despite a large troponin leak .
Rate and rhythm :
The patient with a history of afib .
Afib was stable .
Coumadin and aspirin are held again secondary to his concurrent GI bleed .
2. GI :
A GI consult was obtained and the patient had adequate IV access .
Hematocrit was checked q.8h and the patient was transfused again , as noted above , a total of 4 units packed red blood cells for a hematocrit of less than 30 .
The patient was started on Protonix IV 40 b.i.d.
Per GI consult given the patient &apos;s non ST elevation MI he would be a high risk candidate for a GI endoscopy at this time and therefore in the peri non ST elevation MI period would prefer supportive management at this time with follow up including elective GI workup in 4-6 weeks .
The patient continued to have guaiac positive stools but no evidence of bright red blood per rectum or large amounts of melena .
On the date of discharge the patient has stools that are only trace guaiac positive .
3. Endocrine :
On admission , all oral hyperglycemics were held and the patient was covered with regular insulin sliding scale q.a.c. and q.h.s.
The patient &apos;s fingersticks were in the 150s without any coverage .
The patient was restarted on a low dose glipizide at 2.5 mg and adjustments to be made at the next PCP visit .
4. Heme :
Hematocrit is stable .
Has remained stable above 30 without any need for further transfusions .
Over the last several days the patient received a total of 4 units packed red blood cells during this admission .
On discharge his hematocrit is 35.4 .
5. ID :
The patient was initially started on Levo 250 mg q.d. for a UTI .
However , his urine cultures were positive for MRSA and the patient completed a seven day course of Vancomycin IV .
6. Pulmonary :
The patient with a history of MRSA left lower lobe pneumonia .
We have a low threshold for starting antibiotics ; however , chest x-ray reveals no acute changes and the patient remained 96% on room air throughout this admission without any stigmata over recurrent pneumonia including cough , dyspnea or shortness of breath .
7. Renal :
The patient came in with a creatinine that was elevated at 2.6 .
His baseline was 1.8-2.2 likely pre renal azotemia and subsequently his creatinine improved with hydration and the packed red blood cell transfusions , and his creatinine steadily decreased down to his baseline .
On discharge his creatinine is 1.8 .
CODE STATUS :
Code is DNR / DNI .
TO DO PLAN :
1. The patient is to follow up with PCP , Dr. Toob Obestimeuph in two weeks .
2. The patient is to follow up with the Genearocktemp Ry Health GI Service in four weeks .
3. The patient is deconditioned secondary to his week long hospital stay and long rehabilitation stay and will require aggressive physical therapy .
4. The patient should have q.o.d. hematocrit checks to ensure that his hematocrit is above 30 and if it is below 30 should be transfused secondary to his underlying known CAD .
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE :
Include Albuterol nebulizer 2.5 mg nebs q.4h , Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Vitamin D 5000 units p.o. q.weekly , iron sulfate 325 mg p.o. t.i.d. , folate 1 mg p.o. q.d. , regular insulin sliding scale , Lopressor 25 mg p.o. t.i.d. , Neutrophos 250 mg p.o. t.i.d. , Senna 2 tablets p.o. b.i.d. , multivitamins with minerals one tab p.o. q.d. , trazadone 50 mg p.o. q.h.s. p.r.n. insomnia , Zocor 40 mg p.o. q.h.s. , Atrovent nebulizers 0.5 mg nebs q.i.d. p.r.n. shortness of breath , Pulmicort two puffs inhaled b.i.d. and Nexium 40 mg p.o. b.i.d.
DISPOSITION :
The patient is to be discharged to rehabilitation for further recuperation and physical rehabilitation .
eScription document :
9-4697302 KSRGeqm Tel
Dicatated By :
LEICKKOTE , CI ABOB
Attending :
NORFJESCSTOOKS , SALENE MARGGAY Dictation ID 6114063
D :
03/21/04
T :
03/21/04
