914696614
OMH
8738882
406941
10/28/1998 12:00:00 AM
Discharge Summary
Unsigned
DIS
Report Status :
Unsigned
DISCHARGE SUMMARY NAME :
LOOSE , BERISS
UNIT NUMBER :
8738882
ADMISSION DATE :
10/28/98
DISCHARGE DATE :
10/31/98
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS :
Right middle cerebral artery and left posterior communicating artery embolic stroke in the context of subtherapeutic Coumadin .
CHIEF COMPLAINT :
Seventy nine-year-old male with chronic atrial fibrillation , INR of 1.1 who was brought in by his neighbors from his assisted living quarters after being found wandering and confused .
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient was found confused and wandering in his assisted living apartment more than twenty four hours ago .
He was brought to Oaksgekesser/ Memorial Hospital , no further history is obtainable .
His systolic blood pressure on admission to Oaksgekesser/ Memorial Hospital was 173/110 , a pulse of 137 .
He was in atrial fibrillation , his INR was 1.1 .
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY :
Three vessel coronary artery bypass graft in 1993 .
Chronic atrial fibrillation .
Prostatism status post transurethral resection of prostate in 1997 .
hypertension .
congestive heart failure .
myocardial infarction in 1993 .
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION :
As per primary care physician , Lovoxil 25 milligrams q day .
Lasix 40 milligrams po q day .
Digoxin 0.125 milligramsq day .
Lopressor 25 milligrams PO b.i.d.
Prozac 20 milligrams q day .
K-dur 10 milligrams q day .
Enteric coated aspirin 81 milligrams q day .
ALLERGIES :
No known drug allergies .
SOCIAL HISTORY :
Denies alcohol , tobacco , lives in assisted living .
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION :
on admission , afebrile , blood pressure 139/75 , pulse 113 , O2 sat at 99% with nasal cannula .
head , eyes , ears , nose and throat mucous membranes looked dry , neck was supple , no bruits .
Cardiovascular irregularly irregular rhythm with a II / VI systolic ejection murmur heard greatest at the left sternal border .
Lungs bilaterally clear to auscultation .
The abdomen was soft and non-tender , non-distended .
Neurological examination :
Awake , semi alert , oriented to person , place , but time as November 1998 .
Attention sporadically attentive , seemed somewhat agitated .
Presidents were quoted in reverse chronicle order correctly to Regan .
Language :
fluent with intact repetition , followed commands and crossed mid line on the right .
Cranial nerves :
right eye deviational though can cross mid line volitionally .
Pupils 4 to 3 OD , 3 1/2 to 2 1/2OS , brisk bilaterally .
Left central facial , motor V strong , sensory V extinguishes on the left of V1 to V3 distribution .
The patient has a left homonomous hemianopsia vs right neglect with double simultaneous visual testing .
Tongue mid line .
Tone with increase in the left upper extremity .
Power :
left finger extension was only 4 of 5 otherwise motor is full throughout .
Sensory examination :
notable for double simultaneous extinction in the left face , arm and leg .
Acuity :
the patient was inattentive during this portion of the examination and was not able to complete the Snelling chart .
deep tendon reflexes symmetrical in upper extremities and lower extremities .
Toes are down going bilaterally .
The patient refused to continue with the examination .
LABORATORY :
Notable for a bun and creatinine of 33/2.0 , this is the patient &apos;s baseline .
His Digoxin level was also low at .2 .
His prothrombin time INR and partial thromboplastin time were all normal .
chest x-ray :
a large cardiac silhouette , no evidence of congestive heart failure or pulmonary edema .
A head CT showed a large right NCA hypodensity in the right temporal lobe area and a non-contiguous lesion in the right parietal area .
There was also a hypodensity in the left occipital lobe .
The lesions are consistent with an embolic stroke of at least twenty four hours of age .
HOSPITAL COURSE AND TREATMENT :
1. Neurology ; the patient &apos;s examination improved .
The right hand neglect became less prominent .
His gaze deviation also became less prominent .
He continued to have double simultaneous extinction .
The patient was placed on heparin and loaded on Coumadin , although the etiology of the embolic stroke was felt to be secondary toatrial fibrillation in the context of subtherapeutic anticoagulation .
Carotid non-invasives were completed and were negative .
The patient also had a neuro ophthalmological examination with Dr. Can .
The patient was unable to complete his examination due to his stroke .
The patient is to have a follow up examination with Dr. Can in one to two months after discharge for assessment of his vision .2 .
Cardiac ; the patient &apos;s Digoxin was low .
His rate was controlled by increasing his Digoxin load of 20.25 for two days , this brought his Digoxin level up to therapeutic levels and his dose was then decreased down his standard 0.125 .
His Digoxin level however , should be followed closely given his chronic renal insufficiency .
The patient &apos;s rate was controlled to 100 .
Aspirin 81 milligrams was initiated as per cardiology consult .
The patient &apos;s blood pressure on medications were held and his blood pressure rarely went above 140s to 150s .
Mr. Loose ruled out by cardiac enzymes for an myocardial infarction .
The patient was discharged in stable condition to Linghs County Medical Center .
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE :
Coumadin 7 milligrams on October 30 , this should be adjusted daily for an INR goal of 2 to 3 to heparin gtt at 1200 units per hour with a partial thromboplastin time goal of 60 to 80 .
aspirin 81 milligrams po q day for cardiac protection .
Digoxin 0.125 milligrams po q day .
Digoxin level should be checked frequently given his chronic renal insufficiency .
Lasix 40 milligrams po q day .
Colace 100 milligrams po q day , hold for loose stools .
Prozac 20 milligrams po q.h.s.
DISPOSITION :
The patient should have follow up with Dr. Loose in the Neurology clinic , ( 801-0863 ) in one to two weeks .
The patient should also have follow up with his primary care physician , Dr. Hawnheadethals at 229-1118 and in one to two months , the patient should have follow up neuro-ophthalmologic examination with Dr. Can at A Hospital .
TINEARA LOOSE , M.D.
TR :
lw
DD :
10/31/98
TD :
10/31/98 9:38
Acc :
RANDLAHJA NELSCHEL ROZIESC , M.Dedited 7/17/99 ik
