914783811
FIH
7478819
972979
644627
8/4/1998 12:00:00 AM
ALCOHOL RELATED FALL / RULE OUT MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION .
Unsigned
DIS
Report Status :
Unsigned
DISCHARGE SUMMARY NAME :
FUSCGLOTZCANTS , TON
UNIT NUMBER :
012-69-91
ADMISSION DATE :
08/04/1998
DISCHARGE DATE :
08/12/98
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS :
Alcohol related fall / rule out myocardial infarction .
ASSOCIATED DIAGNOSES :
1. Hypertension .
2. Coronary artery disease with myocardial infarction in 1992 .
3. Hyperlipidemia .
4. Mitral regurgitation .
5. Question of psychiatric history .
PRINCIPAL PROCEDURE :
1. Head computer tomogram I-in 8/4/98 .
ASSOCIATED PROCEDURE :
Trauma series 8/4/98 .
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
The patient is a veteran who received his medical care at the Bridges Hospital .
He is a somewhat demented gentleman with a psychiatric history the details of which are unclear .
He also has a history of hyperlipidemia , hypertension , mitral regurgitation , coronary artery disease status post myocardial infarction in 1992 .
He had an echocardiogram in 12/97 which showed an ejection fraction of o40-45% .
He was found down in the basement of a local restaurant .
Emergency medical technicians arrived on the scene and attempted to move the patient and / or arouse him .
He was apparently unresponsive x a few minutes .
When he awoke he became combative and required handcuffs .
He was brought via ambulance to the Fairm of Ijordcompmac Hospital Emergency Ward .
In the Fairm of Ijordcompmac Hospital Emergency Ward his temperature was 98.3F , blood pressure 150/83 , heart rate 90 beats per minute , 02 sat 92% on 2L face mask .
He was breathing spontaneously and did not respond to voice but did withdraw to pain .
He was given D50 Narcan and thiamine with no response .
He was then started on intravenous fluids then slowly began to become more awake and arousable .
His ___ and trauma series were both negative .
Chest x-ray showed a question of a pneumonia versus a hiatal hernia .
His electrocardiogram showed no ischemic changes .
When he regained his consciousness he reports having been hit over the head with a gun leading to loss of consciousness .
However there was no evidence of trauma to the head and his story was inconsistent with other evidence and was thought to be an unreliable source of information .
He denied shortness of breath , chest pain , palpitations , fever , chills , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , cough , upper respiratory tract infection like symptoms or dysuria .
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS :
Negative .
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY :
1. Hypertension .
2. Coronary artery disease status post myocardial infarction in 1992 .
3. Hyperlipidemia .
4. Mitral regurgitation .
5. Question of a psychiatric diagnosis but he does not see a psychiatrist at the Bridges Hospital .
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION :
1. Gemfibrozil 600 mg po twice a day .
2. Aspirin 325 mg per day .
3. Lisinopril 20 mg per day .
ALLERGIES :
No known drug allergies .
SOCIAL HISTORY :
Lives in Sonhunt with his wife .
He is a WW II veteran .
He drinks up to one pink per day of alcohol .
No tobacco .
No intravenous drug abuse .
FAMILY HISTORY :
Noncontributory .
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION :
The patient is an elderly black male in two point restraints somewhat agitated but in no acute distress .
Vital signs :
temperature 98.7F , blood pressure 152/85 , pulse 80s , respiratory rate 16 , and satting 98% .
Head , eyes , ears , nose and throat exam :
notable for a left conjunctival swelling that was not tender , non-erythematous .
Oral mucosa was pink and dry .
Neck was supple .
Full range of motion .
2+ carotids and no bruits .
No lymphadenopathy .
Jugular venous pulse flat .
Lungs clear to auscultation bilaterally with good air movement .
Cardiovascular exam :
regular rate and rhythm , S1 and S2 , no murmurs , rubs or gallops .
Abdomen was protuberant , soft , nontender , good bowel sounds with no hepatosplenomegaly .
Guaiac negative per the Fairm of Ijordcompmac Hospital Emergency Ward .
Extremity exam :
no clubbing , cyanosis or edema .
2+ dorsal pedis pulse pulses bilaterally .
No femoral bruits .
Normal skin turgor .
Normal ______ .
Neurologically he was alert and oriented x 3 , cranial nerves II through XII were grossly intact .
His motor exam was nonfocal .
LABORATORY AND RADIOLOGIC DATA ( ADMISSION ) :
141/3.4 , 109/23.3 , 24/1.3 , glucose 91 .
Total and direct bilirubin .3 and 1.4 , serum glutamate oxaloacetic transaminase 33 , alkaline phosphatase 76 , lactic dehydrogenase 271 .
Calcium / magnesium/phosphorus 8.5/1.2/2.7 .
Plasma ammonia 29 .
Tox screen negative for alcohol , salicylate , acetaminophen and theophylline .
White blood cell count 5.8 , hematocrit 41.4 , platelets 109 , negative urine analysis .
Chest x-ray increased opacity in the left lower lobe which likely represents pneumonia and / or pleural effusion .
There was a superimposed radiolucency in this region as well which may also represent a hiatal hernia .
When the patient &apos;s condition permit PA and lateral view of the chest is recommended to exclude pleural effusion and further evaluate the presence of a hiatal hernia .
The patient had a followup chest x-ray on 8/5/98 that showed low lung volumes with a vague opacity in the right upper lobe that may be artifactual related to the cardiac electrode .
A repeat chest x-ray is advised .
There is a large overall density with an air fluid level in the left lower zone posteriorly that is likely a hiatal hernia .
There are also displaced fractures of the left 8th , 9th and 10th ribs .
Head computer tomogram showed no evidenced of intracerebral hemorrhage , acute large vessel territorial infarction or mass effect .
There were nonspecific low attention white matter T2 changes most likely secondary to small vessel disease .
There was a possible old lacunar infarct of the left thalamus .
His electrocardiogram was normal sinus rhythm at 90 with normal axis and slightly widened QRS at .14 seconds and Qs inferiorly in II , III and aVF .
There were no acute ST-T wave changes .
SUMMARY :
In summary , this an 81 year old gentleman with a significant cardiac history and alcohol history who presented to Fairm of Ijordcompmac Hospital with loss of consciousness , who had a tox screen and a negative head computer tomogram who likely is suffering from an alcohol related fall versus syncope .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
He was admitted to Lyjoneshutchepawalt Cleod Exre Hospital for observation .
It was felt that he should be ruled out for an myocardial infarction given his cardiac history and was placed in two point restraints .
When the patient came to the floor he was angry and upset about admitted to the Fairm of Ijordcompmac Hospital instead of the Bridges Hospital and was somewhat combative .
He admitted to drinking 1 pint or so of alcohol not every day but the last drink was the night prior to admission to Fairm of Ijordcompmac Hospital and he had a couple of glasses of wine .
He was quite confused in relaying the history and very tangential in his replies .
He says he was out to lunch some friends to eat pizza at a restaurant on Valemin .
He decided to go to the basemen so they could eat in privacy when he was hit over the head by police with a gun and lost consciousness at the Fairm of Ijordcompmac Hospital Emergency Ward .
He was quite paranoid , agitated and delusional during an interview and there is no evidence to support the patient &apos;s history and recall of events leading to the hospitalization .
Hospital course by system .
1. NEUROLOGICALLY :
The patient is completely alert , awake and oriented x 3 .
The patient shows no evidence of alcohol withdrawal although he was prophylactically treated with Ativan and was given multivitamins , thiamine and folate .
Psychiatry saw the patient and felt that he was suffering from alcohol related syndrome versus some component of pugilist brain given the fact that he was a boxer in the past .
They felt that there was no acute psychiatric issue at hand .
2. CARDIOVASCULAR :
The patient ruled out for an myocardial infarction with peak creatinine phosphokinase of 350 and flat isoenzymes .
He deserves a full syncope as an inpatient and is stable for transfer from a cardiovascular standpoint .
This will be pursued at the Bridges Hospital .
He is maintained on his antihypertensive of Lisinopril and his anti-hyperlipidemic of Gemfibrozil and gets an aspirin .
CONDITION ON DISCHARGE :
Good .
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE :
1. Aspirin 325 mg per day .
2. Gemfibrozil 600 mg twice a day .
3. Lisinopril 20 mg per day .
4. Oral thiamine 100 mg per day .
5. Folate 1 tab per day .
6. Multivitamins 1 tab per day .
7. Ativan 2 mg q 1-2 tabs po as needed .
FOLLOWUP :
The patient will be transferred to the Bridges Hospital on 8/6/98 and will followup with Dr. Chpo Night at the Bridges Hospital .
NARONDAINE AGENT , M.D.
DICTATING FOR :
ICECA NIGHT , M.D.
TR :
pl
DD :
08/06/1998
TD :
08/06/1998 6:59 A
cc :
ICECA NIGHT , M.D. 368 PBE-2ND FLOOR OFM 070 PQK 960 NARONDAINE AGENT , M.D. MEDICINE RESIDENT MBC 877 STAT
