929334185
FIH
8151167
53653/y9m1
539442
5/13/1994 12:00:00 AM
HYPOPHARYNGEAL CANCER .
Unsigned
DIS
Report Status :
Unsigned
ADMISSION DATE :
5/13/94
DISCHARGE DATE :
5/16/94
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS :
Hypopharyngeal cancer .
PRINCIPAL PROCEDURE :
Removal of left neck lymph node and esophageal endoscopy and dilation .
HISTORY AND REASON FOR ADMISSION :
This is a 69 year-old white male status post surgery in July of 1993 for a laryngopharyngoesophagogastrectomy with gastric reconstruction and modified right neck dissection for pharyngeal cancer .
Since that surgery , the patient has had dysphagia off and on , solids worse than liquids .
Sometimes solids get stuck for about 10 minutes .
About two months ago the patient had come to the emergency room because he couldn &apos;t swallow for three days .
He required esophageal dilation .
Also , since July the patient has noted bilateral lymphadenopathy , especially the large submandibular , which has gotten larger .
It is difficult to get an exact history as to the onset of the lymphadenopathy , as the patient cannot vocalize and is intoxicated at the time of admission .
The lymphadenopathy is uncomfortable but not painful .
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY :
Significant for radiation therapy after his surgery in July , a tracheoesophageal fistula , which was repaired , exploratory laparotomy in November , 1994 , for small bowel obstruction , hypertension , colitis , neonatal jaundice , and on September 1 , 1993 , drainage of a neck abscess .
He underwent closure of pharyngeal cutaneous fistula with muscle interposition on November 5 , 1994 , and a left upper lobectomy in September , 1993 , for lung cancer .
ALLERGIES :
Aspirin .
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION :
None .
SOCIAL HISTORY :
Notable for heavy alcohol use and history of heavy tobacco use , although he quit two years ago .
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS :
No fevers or chills , no nightsweats .
Positive weight gain since his last admission , positive diarrhea times two weeks-soft brown stools .
Negative bright red blood per rectum , negative coughing , negative hemoptysis , negative hematemesis , negative chest pain , positive shortness of breath with exertion .
The patient can walk or go up a flight of stairs without any shortness of breath , however .
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION :
The patient was a pleasant , mildly intoxicated male with grossly swollen neck .
He was afebrile with stable vital signs .
Head , eyes , ears , nose , throat :
normocephalic , atraumatic , pupils equal , regular and reactive to light and accommodation , extra ocular muscles intact .
Tongue with multiple white-yellow lesions .
Neck grossly swollen at the midline and right angle with jaw , unable to fully swallow .
The lungs were clear to auscultation .
Heart :
regular rate and rhythm .
The abdomen was soft , nontender , nondistended , positive bowel sounds .
Extremities without clubbing , cyanosis or edema .
ASSESSMENT AND PLAN :
This 69 year-old male status post laryngopharyngo-esophagogastrectomy for cancer in 05/93 now represents with progressive dysphagia and gross lymphadenopathy and neck mass .
The patient is mildly intoxicated .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
The patient was given overnight hydration .
He was taken to the operating room on May 14 , 1994 , for a bronchoscopy and esophagoscopy , dilatation and biopsy .
His left neck mass was excised and preliminarily was said to be squamous cell carcinoma .
The patient had esophagoscopy , where a stenosis was noted which was dilated to a # 49 French catheter .
There were no complications .
The patient was taken to the floor in stable condition .
Postoperatively , there was no crepitus and X-rays showed no mediastinal air .
Neck biopsy site was clean .
On May 15 , the patient &apos;s diet was advanced to a soft diet and then later in the day to a regular diet .
Radiation Oncology was consulted and it was determined that Mr. Douet still had room for more palliative radiation therapy of his neck , and he arranged an appointment with Dr. Wires on Tuesday following discharge .
Dr. Wires &apos;s telephone number is 526-6508 .
On May 16 , the patient was tolerating PO well , his lungs were clear , and he was discharged to home in stable condition .
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE :
None .
FOLLOW-UP :
The patient will follow up with Dr. Wires and Dr. Caslighlourdes .
STIE FYFE , M.D.
DICTATING FOR :
RIEMIND CASLIGHLOURDES , M.D.
TR :
iv / bmot
DD :
5/16/94
TD :
05/17/94
CC :
