935669761 PUMC
2111773
218953
239723
2/28/1999 12:00:00 AM
Discharge Summary
Unsigned
DIS
Report Status :
Unsigned
DISCHARGE SUMMARY NAME :
GIVEN , TIN R
UNIT NUMBER :
104-34-98
ADMISSION DATE :
02/28/1999
DISCHARGE DATE :
03/16/1999
DOB :
9/10/67 Mrs. Given is a 31 year old female with a recent history of pneumonia as well as polysubstance abuse , depression , multiple suicide attempts , who actually came to the emergency room after visiting her 51-year-old boyfriend and consuming multiple cardiac medications , in what appears to be a suicide attempt , as well as narcotics .
At about an hour and a half after the patient went home she became quite drowsy , nauseated and threw up .
She fell to the floor , choking on her vomit and was struggling to take a breath .
This was witnessed by her 12 year old daughter , who called the EMT &apos;s .
The EMTs arrived approximately five minutes after the call , found her asystolic and apneic .
They intubated her .
In the field she was given Atropine , Epinephrine and converted to an idioventricular rhythm .
She then persisted to go into EMD and then spontaneously , which is quite unclear , to normal sinus rhythm with a pulse .
Her initial systolic blood pressure was 80 .
The patient was nonresponsive in the Ponta,itri- University Medical Center emergency room. , but her blood pressure was noted to be 105/62 .
In the emergency room she received charcoal and broad speculum antibiotics and Ativan for ? of seizure activity with repetitive mouth movements .
She was evaluated by the Neurological services at that time and felt that these mouth movements might be consistent with hypoxic myoclonus .
She was admitted to our CCU for further therapy .
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY :
As I have stated is significant for depression , history of crack Cocaine and Heroin use .
She was HIV negative about a year ago .
Kidney stones , chronic back pain , hypertension and multiple suicide attempts .
Her last was with 50 pills of Cardizem CD , as well as obesity .
MEDS AT HOME :
Include Zoloft and Verapamil .
ALLERGIES :
She has no known drug allergies .
SOCIAL HISTORY :
Her social history is significant for mother who takes care of her twelve-year-old daughter , tobacco , alcohol and multiple polysubstance abuse .
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION :
Her physical examination when she arrived to the Coronary Care Unit was notable for an agitated woman who responds to voice but was very dysarthric .
Her vital signs were temperature of 100.8 , heart rate 96 , blood pressure 140/80 , respirations 20 .
Her oxygen saturations were 95% on five liters nasal cannula .
Her pupils were dilated and slightly reactive to light bilaterally and they were anicteric .
Her oropharynx was moist and she had no exudates .
Her neck was supple , she had full range of motion , no thyromegaly , no jugular venous distention and carotids were 2+ without bruits , no lymphadenopathy .
Her lungs were rhonchorous bilaterally .
Cardiovascular exam :
regular rate and rhythm ; she had no murmurs , gallops or rubs .
The abdomen was soft , non-tender , nondistended .
She had no organomegaly , no flank tenderness .
Her rectal examination was notable for guaiac negative brown stool , good tone .
Extremities :
1+ pulses , no edema , no cords .
Neurological examination :
she was quite somnolent , her deep tendon reflexes were 1+ and symmetric .
She was spontaneously moving no limbs .
LABORATORY DATA :
The patient had a sodium of 133 , potassium 5.1 , chloride 102 , bicarbonate 11.4 , BUN and creatinine 23 and 2.0 .
Calcium 8.0 , phosphorus 9.8 , magnesium 2.4 .
Her albumin was notable at 2.8 .
Her alkaline phosphatase was elevated to 182 and her serum glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase was elevated to 669 as well as lactic acid dehydrogenase to 2,479 .
Her initial arterial blood gases were significant for pO2 of 414 , pCO2 of 28 , and pH of 7.14 on the ventilator .
A beta human chorionic gonadotropin was negative .
Her toxicology screen was notable for diazepam , nordiazepam , cyclobenzaprine , Oxycodone , verapamil , cannabinoids , benzodiazepine , opiates on admission .
Her chest x-ray showed bilateral air space disease with a slightly enlarged heart .
An electrocardiogram showed normal sinus rhythm with no evidence of ischemia when she arrived to the floor .
She had a urinalysis that was negative .
HOSPITAL COURSE AND TREATMENT :
The patient was initially admitted to the Coronary Care Unit .
Neurologically , she remained unresponsive until 3-3 , when she became progressively more awake and alert , moving all four extremities .
Her anoxic encephalopathy has improved .
She has been evaluated by our Neurological Services , who feel that per the Levy criteria , she has about a 75% chance of a good recovery with mild to moderate neurological impairment .
She will need much time to recover .
Currently , she improves every day and we are waiting for a magnetic resonance imaging to evaluate the presence of watershed cerebral infarcts .
Cardiovascular .
Initially she appeared volume-overloaded with central venous pressure in the 20&apos;s and chest x-rays that were significant for modest to moderate pulmonary edema .
She was diuresed and had an echocardiogram which showed an ejection fraction of 57% , no segmental wall motion abnormality , and no valvular disease and her rhythms have remained stable in normal sinus rhythm .
Pulmonary .
When she was admitted to the Coronary Care Unit , she was on minimal vent settings for airway protection .
As her mental status improved , she became alert enough to be extubated on March 3 .
She has had good oxygenation ever since extubation .
Infectious Disease .
She has grown out methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus from her sputum as well as from a catheter tip .
She has been started on Vancomycin and should receive a two week course .
Therapy was begun on 3-2-99 .
Her blood cultures have remained negative since admission .
She was also noted to be Clostridium difficile positive on her stool and was begun on Flagyl and should continue a seven day course .
Therapy was begun on March 7 .
Fluids , Electrolytes , Nutrition .
She has been on tube feeds since admission .
She is currently taking some PO&apos;s , a dysphagia diet with thick liquids and is followed by our Speech and Swallow Services at Ponta,itri- University Medical Center .
She gets tube feeds at night with the hopes of increasing her daily PO intake , we will be able to discontinue her tube feeds .
Gastrointestinal .
She had elevated liver function tests since admission consistent with shock liver .
They are currently trending down and she should continued to be monitored .
Musculoskeletal .
She has been working with physical therapy and as she becomes more and more alert , is gaining more from their services .
She will need to complete her evaluation as well as therapy .
The patient is going to be transferred to Nette Rence Medical Center for further therapy .
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE :
Thiamine 100 mg q.day , Folic acid 1 mg q.day , multivitamins q.day , Calcium carbonate plus Vitamin D 250 mg t.i.d. , Heparin 5000 units subcutaneously b.i.d. , Prilosec 20 mg q.day , Senna two tabs qhs , Atrovent nebs 5 mg q.i.d. , Albuterol 2.5 mg nebs q4h , Erythromycin topical ointment both eyes t.i.d. , Nystatin powder topical b.i.d. , Vancomycin one gram intravenously q12h , Flagyl 500 mg t.i.d.
_______________________________ MARE NARAMUND ALL , M.D.
TR :
ytr
DD :
03/10/1999
TD :
03/12/1999 1:52 P
cc :
MARE NARAMUND ALL , M.D. cut-off / combined 5/3/99 jw
