942840618
FIH
7113925
2524
641867
6/13/1994 12:00:00 AM
CARDIOGENIC SHOCK .
Unsigned
DIS
Report Status :
Unsigned
DISCHARGE SUMMARY NAME :
RATA GIVEN ,
UNIT NUMBER :
126-10-12
ADMISSION DATE :
06/13/94
DISCHARGE DATE :
07/01/94
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS :
Cardiogenic shock .
OTHER DIAGNOSES :
1 ) Coronary artery disease .
2 ) Atrial fibrillation .
3 ) Acute renal failure .
4 ) Crohn &apos;s disease .
PRINCIPAL PROCEDURE :
6/13/94 :
Intra-aortic balloon placement .
6/17/94 :
Intubation .
Hemodialysis .
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
This is a 56-year-old man with a history of ischemic disease transferred to the FIH for further care for cardiogenic shock .
Mr. Given had an anterior myocardial infarction in 1981 .
He had inferior myocardial infarction in February 1992 .
His course was complicated at that time by hypertension and an echocardiogram showed an LV ejection fraction of 0.10 to 0.15 .
In August , 1993 he had an out of hospital cardiac arrest .
He rule in for another myocardial infarction at that time .
He was transferred to the FIH where he underwent a work up of both his arrhythmia and his heart failure .
An automatic implantable defibrillator was placed .
He was thought to be a good candidate for a transplant at that time as coronary arteriography showed diffuse disease in the LAD and right coronary arteries as well as a proximal circumflex stenosis .
Because of the diffuse nature of the disease and the left ventricular dysfunction , Mr. Given was thought not to be a revascularization candidate and was listed for a transplant .
Mr. Given waited as an outpatient for the availability of a donor heart .
He was admitted to the hospital in late April with multiple episodes of bloody diarrhea .
Colonoscopy demonstrated severe Crohn &apos;s disease with sparing of the rectum .
A perirectal fistula was seen .
Treatment with IV corticosteroids led to improvement and Mr. Given was discharged from the hospital ten days ago .
On the evening of April 22nd , Mr. Given developed progressively worsening dyspnea .
He presented to the Iming Medical Center emergency room on the morning of April 22nd with hypertension and dyspnea .
He was given intravenous fluid to support his blood pressure and developed pulmonary edema and was intubated .
Hypertension continued and an intra-aortic balloon pump was placed .
He is now being transferred to the FIH for further treatment .
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION :
Physical examination on transfer was remarkable for a blood pressure of 80/56 and a heart rate of 124 .
His CVP was 16 .
He was on the balloon pump at the time .
His chest was clear anteriorly .
His cardiac exam was remarkable for a summation gallop .
No murmur was auscultated but the high heart rate did diminish the possibility of this .
His abdomen was soft and he had no extremity edema .
His feet were cool but there were pedal pulses bilaterally .
LABORATORY DATA :
Admission laboratory studies included a hematocrit of 34.3 and a white count of 25,700 .
The sodium was 126 , the BUN 80 and a creatinine of 4.6 .
Electrocardiogram revealed a sinus tachycardia with an intraventricular conduction defect .
There were inferior Q waves consistent with an old infarct .
The chest x-ray revealed mild pulmonary edema and cardiomegaly .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
Mr. Given was admitted to the hospital and it was hoped that his end organ dysfunction would improve with a period of ballooning and improved perfusion such as to allow transplantation to eventually take place .
He was maintained on Levophed as a vasopressor as well as dopamine and dobutamine .
It was noted that his intra-aortic balloon pump was only a 30 ml pump , and on the day after admission , Mr. Given was taken to the catheterization laboratory where this was exchanged for a 40 ml pump .
After replacement of the intra-aortic balloon pump , Mr. Given remained critically ill , although there was some improvement in his augmented diastolic pressure .
He did develop atrial fibrillation , however , which led to hemodynamic decompensation with a wedge pressure of 32 and a cardiac index of 1.6 .
It was hoped that with continued inotropic support this would improve .
He also remained intubated .
Mr. Given was seen by Dr. Farstshuff of the GI Service for advice regarding his Crohn &apos;s disease .
All of these issues , including his acute renal failure , were thought to be contraindications to transplantation .
As Mr. Given did not have any bowel sounds , he did have to remain on nasogastric suction .
He was seen in consultation by Dr. Needs of the Renal Unit .
Dr. Needs felt that the patient had had ischemic acute tubular necrosis and that we could continue to administer diuretics in a an effort to take off volume , but that we did have to allow time to pass in order to see improvement .
Procainamide was begun in an effort to convert Mr. Given to sinus rhythm from atrial fibrillation .
Initially he was in and out of sinus rhythm , but paroxysmal atrial fibrillation did occur frequently .
As Mr. Given &apos;s renal function did not improve , he was begun on continuous venovenous hemodialysis .
This resulted in a reasonable clearance of creatinine .
He was able to get some fluid off as well .
With getting some volume off , the patient &apos;s ventilation improved , as did many of his other metabolic parameters .
His cardiac index had also improved with this to 2.7 , although he was on dobutamine as well .
On 6/19 an effort was made to attempt to wean the intra-aortic balloon pump .
With a decrease in the counterpulsation ration , he developed atrial flutter with a fall in blood pressure and cardiac index .
The balloon pump was restored .
He was continued on this as well as on dobutamine and amrinone support .
He continued on hemodialysis , but had little urine output .
Supportive care continued .
Unfortunately , the white blood count began rising , raising the possibility of sepsis .
Broad spectrum antibiotics to cover potential sources in the gastrointestinal tract were begun and ciprofloxacin was added .
Mr. Given &apos;s blood pressure appeared to stabilize .
Another effort was made on 6/22 to attempt to wean the balloon , but this led to an increase in his wedge pressure and a fall in his arterial pressure , and this was stopped and he was restored to full counterpulsation .
He had been able to be transiently extubated after dialysis had reduced his lung water , but he had to be reintubated on 6/24 .
Hemodialysis continued with maintenance of reasonable metabolic parameters .
He did develop worsening metabolic acidosis .
His hemodialysis was adjusted in an effort to resolve this .
He continued on vancomycin , ciprofloxacin , Zosyn , and fluconazole antibiotics .
Another effort was made to attempt to wean the intra-aortic balloon pump on 6/26 .
This resulted in a fall in his cardiac index , but his blood pressure and wedge pressure were stable .
He did have runs of non-sustained ventricular tachycardia .
On 6/29 Mr. Given began developing periods of hypotension .
The patient stated that he did not want to be reintubated , as it became quite clear that he would not be a transplant candidate .
He began having multiple runs of non-sustained ventricular tachycardia .
The patient and his significant friend , Incloztaua , had a long discussion with his physicians and they felt that , given the futility of his situation , supportive care should be ended .
Indicative of this , Mr. Given took his oxygen mask and demanded that it not be replaced .
He developed progressive hypotension and was pronounced dead early on the morning of 7/1 .
CAGHALA R. PAIN , M.D.
TR :
xh
DD :
01/01/96
TD :
01/04/96 2:28 P
cc :
CAGHALA RAELMODENI PAIN , M.D.
Edited :
6/1/96 by fe
Addendum dictated 5/27/96 by Dr. Caghala Pain
