995495721 PUMC
8102745
918862
1898892
01/24/2002 12:00:00 AM
Discharge Summary
Signed
DIS
Report Status :
Signed
DISCHARGE SUMMARY NAME :
KULRINNE , RYYELEGE N
UNIT NUMBER :
324-80-24
ADMISSION DATE :
01/24/2002
DISCHARGE DATE :
02/08/2002
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS :
Acute anterior myocardial infarction .
ASSOCIATED DIAGNOSES :
1. Hypertension .
2. Hyperlipidemia .
3. Pulmonary hemorrhage .
4. Cognitive deficit .
5. Coronary artery disease .
6. History of basal cell carcinoma .
7. Urinary incontinence and urinary retention with benign prostatic hypertrophy .
8. History of vertigo .
PRINCIPAL PROCEDURE :
1. Coronary artery stent placement to the left anterior descending with intubation and intra-aortic balloon placement .
2. Bronchoscopy .
3. Chest CT .
4. Head CT .
5. Circumflex artery stent .
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE :
Aspirin 325 mg PO qd .
Plavix 75 mg PO qd .
Lopressor 12.5 mg PO bid .
Enalapril 2.5 mg PO qd .
Plavix 75 mg PO qd .
Thiamine .
Multivitamins .
B12 .
Folate .
Seroquel 12.5 a.m. , 50 hs .
Haldol 5 prn .
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS :
This 82-year-old gentleman was admitted on 01/24/02 with stuttering chest pain .
Mr. Kulrinne has a history of cardiac risk factors , including hypertension , hyperlipidemia , obesity .
He had developed intermittent chest pressure with exertion since last fall .
He was placed on cardiac medications after a stress test had revealed reversible defects in the anteroseptal and apical leads .
On medications , he continued to have some discomfort , although this was not quite clear from the outpatient setting .
An attempt at medical management was continued .
However , the patient developed crescendo pattern angina pectoris and presented on the day of admission .
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY :
As above .
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION :
Lipitor .
Lopressor .
Aspirin .
Imdur .
Nitroglycerin prn .
ALLERGIES :
No known drug allergies .
SOCIAL HISTORY :
The patient lives with is wife .
TOBACCO :
History of heavy smoking in the past .
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION :
Blood pressure 112 , Sa02 96% , afebrile .
Lungs clear .
S1 , S2 .
No significant murmurs .
Abdomen :
Obese and soft .
Extremities :
Without edema .
HOSPITAL COURSE :
The patient was admitted to the floor with variable changes in his EKG .
He became pain free in the Emergency Room and was initially admitted to Evinlandcalco Hospital .
However , he developed recurrent chest discomfort on the floor with worsening of his anterior ST segments with elevation , and he was taken to the cardiac catheterization laboratory .
In the cardiac catheterization laboratory , right heart catheterization showed RA 7 , RV 36/9 , wedge 16 .
He was treated with Integrelin in addition to his intravenous heparin , aspirin , and nitrates .
He was found to have the left anterior descending occluded proximally with right to left collaterals .
The circumflex was codominant with severe 90% lesion proximally in the circumflex and 50% lesion in a large OM .
The right coronary artery was codominant and had an ostial stenosis in the 70% range .
Left ventriculography revealed an akinetic anterolateral wall .
A balloon pump was placed and right heart catheterization was performed showing the above .
The patient developed worsening ST elevation on the monitor and the decision was made to go ahead and open the left anterior descending .
The procedure was reasonably complicated in that the left anterior descending had poor re-flow and two stents needed to be placed , as there was a second lesion in the mid left anterior descending .
The distal vessel was quite diseased and poor with regard to vessel quality and caliber .
A good result was obtained with a stent in the proximal left anterior descending and a stent in the mid left anterior descending and the patient went to the Intensive Care Unit on a balloon pump , intubated .
His peak CPK was in the 3000 range .
The patient developed hemoptysis while intubated and on Integrelin and heparin .
He underwent bronchoscopy , which showed no specific lesion .
In addition , chest CT showed no obvious reason for his hemoptysis , with the exception of atelectasis .
It was felt that perhaps the patient had atelectasis and perhaps some aspiration , which predisposed him to hemoptysis .
In addition , the patient had confusion and delirium .
Head CT was without any obvious intracranial catastrophe .
He was seen in consultation by the Neurology and Psychiatry services and felt to have cognitive deficits and was ultimately controlled and managed with a combination of Seroquel and Haldol .
In addition , the patient had a sitter during parts of his hospital course to keep him oriented .
The patient had a return to the cardiac catheterization lab on 2/2/02 to receive a stent to the tight circumflex .
This was uneventful , without the need for intubation , etc , and the procedure went smoothly .
He tolerated it well .
The ostial right coronary was a relatively small vessel for the patient and was not approached this admission .
The patient was transferred to Evinlandcalco Hospital .
He had difficulties with urinary incontinence and required straight catheterization for post-void residuals up until the time of this dictation .
He was still having 300 cc or so post-void remaining in his bladder .
He is followed by Dr. Squithsherl in this regard .
At the time of this dictation , the plan is for probable transfer to a rehabilitation facility for physical therapy .
He has had no recurrent heart angina pectoris or heart failure .
Of note , cardiac echocardiogram revealed an ejection fraction in the 40% range with apical akinesis .
Electronically Signed RIETHERN N BREUN , M.D. 02/17/2002 11:29
_____________________________ RIETHERN N BREUN , M.D.
TR :
fb
DD :
02/06/2002
TD :
02/06/2002 12:13 P 918862
cc :
RIETHERN N BREUN , M.D. SHASTA LIFRE RIVESHEW , M.D.
